On Track (elimination round)
"I remember as a kid, squished next to my 3 siblings in the back seat right hand corner, with them nasty boa constrictor-like seatbelts. Take one breath in and...*gasp* . But it was SO cool to grow up in a family who's idea of a night out was to load up the kids in the hot rod and go cruising." For those of you who know, this car is powered by a 355 C.I.D. small block Chevy. Machine work was done by Precise Automotive in Saskatoon, and the fine tuning by my crew chief, Scott Gordon. This car finished the 1999 racing season placing 7th in the points standings, running on a 229 V6! The 2005 season saw it finish 5th for the second year in a row. Still pretty respectable considering the size of the field!
you breath like this
must
Other interesting specs: It has factory buckets, console & tilt; 3:74 posi; 2200 rpm stall converter; Edelbrock single-plane hi-rise intake; headers; 245/60-14 DOT Street tires (no slicks required!) mounted on my classic favorite, Cragar SST's (no Foose wheels here, thankyouverymuch!) While the serial # says it's a 1978 Phoenix, it shares genetics with a donor 1977 Ventura front clip. She sports a custom designed dual exhaust system for maximum performance, created and installed by Scott Gordon. This car runs the same through the pipes as it does on open headers! Racers, if you ever need custom work, he's the man to see! The custom Turbo 350 transmission was rebuilt by All-o-Matic Transmission in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Great job, guys! She shifts BEAUTIFULLY!
Other special thanks go to NAPA Auto Parts for coming on board in 2005 and helping us to realize our racing dreams! Very special appreciation go to my sons who get the car ready to race and again have it ready to go home again after each race meet, and to my husband Scott who is always there to rescue my car whenever something goes wrong. All mom has to do is drive! I couldn't ask for a better pit crew.
Having ridden in a 12 second car, I'm not so sure now if I WANT my Phoenix to go any faster. Being in the low 14's is perfect. I can still take passengers along to enjoy the ride, and not have to worry too much about specialized safety equipment. But I would like to make her LOOK better.
A Production. © 2006  