Socrates Sound Links
After at least a decade of cultural diversity in (higher) music education, it is time to see how far the efforts have reached into our institution. What are size and shape of today practice? What are its successes, and what its failures? What mechanisms are in place to increase and improve the activities in this field, for example in terms of funding and exchange? What impact does cultural diversity have on for example institutional culture and teaching methods, but also the employability of our students?
Sound Links is a research project under the Socrates programme of the European Commission. Apart from Rotterdam Conservatoire, the lead partner, six other partner institutions were involved: Conservatoire of Amsterdam, Irish World Music Centre, MalmAcademy of Music, Rhythmic Conservatoire Copenhagen, Dartington College of Arts, and World Music Centre Serpa. The main aim of Sound Links has been to map out and analyse developments in the field of cultural diversity in European conservatoires.
Research focuses on current practice, and different approaches are investigated for strong and weak points. Another part of the research looks into mechanisms and available funding for students mobility and transfer of study results. The final report is published on this website, and contains among other things useful andholdsfor institutions for higher music education with planned or realised activities in the field of cultural diversity.
From Policy to Practice - Practical guide for institutions for higher music education
In the multicultural reality of today, everyone involved in the arts has to at least determine their position towards cultural diversity. Even if it means choosing not to address it. A close look at conservatoires across Europe shows that in fact, over the past two decades, cultural diversity has moved beyond exoticism and tokenism. It has become an artistic, social and market reality that is reflected in numerous activities in higher music education.
Full Report
Here you will find the link to download the full report of Sound Links, as well as the appendices.
EPILOGUE - by Peter Renshaw, project moderator
The main architects of this Sound Links Report, Huib Schippers (Project Supervisor) and Ninja Kors (Researcher and Project Manager), are to be congratulated on presenting a clear analysis of the central issues connected with cultural diversity in institutions for higher music education across Europe. Drawing on the work of the Sound Links partners, the Report provides a clear framework that invites institutions to reappraise the ways in which they are responding to the challenges of cultural diversity. The accompanying guide rom Policy to Practiceespecially offers a practical guide for translating principles of policy into action. The issues raised in the Report are complex, but they demonstrate that there is an urgency for institutions to address cultural diversity with an informed understanding and a clear resolve.