First Battle Of Adobe Walls Site
Photo courtesy Erick Whetstone, 4-22-04
The name Adobe Walls has been applied to several trading posts north of the Canadian River. The earliest date is given as 1843 and the first structure appeared around 1845-46 when an 80 foot square adobe structure was built and aptly called Fort Adobe. Indian misbehavior forced the post to close by 1848. Attempts were made to reestablish the post, but it was finally blown up in frustration, providing the Panhandle with its first landmark ruins. In 1864 the was fought when Colonel itCarson and his force of 335 men (with 75 Indian allies) fought hostile Kiowas, with assorted Apaches, Comanches, and Arapahoes near the ruins. The casualties were three dead with 15 wounded for the Army and Indian casualties were estimated to be 60 killed or wounded. Ten years later, merchants opened a trading post/ restaurant/ saloon a mile from the original ruins. Trade with the area buffalo hunters flourished until June1874 when the took place. The main building was constructed of sod - in the fashion of Kansas buildings - and although the complex was overwhelmed by a force estimated between 300 to over a thousand Indians, the defenders held their own with only three dead (one an accident after the fight was over). The post was abandoned. Later the made its headquarters near the original site. Former Army scout and survivor of the 1874 fight, Billy Dixon built a house at the ruins of . In 1887 Dixon house became the community post office and Dixon became postmaster. Adobe Walls as touted as an up and coming settlement in an attempt to recruit settlers, but in truth it never truly developed. The population never exceeded 20 throughout the 20th Century and only scattered houses remain today.History in a Pecan Shell
First Battle of Adobe Walls
Dodge City, KansasSecond Battle of Adobe Walls
Turkey Track RanchFort Adobe
The Panhandle-Plains Historical Society acquired six-acres of the 1874 site in 1923 and archeological digs have turned up a trove of artifacts. The site is on the National Register and is Texas state archeological landmark.Archeological Site
Book Your Hotel Here & Save