Selection Criteria JIN Acknowledgement
Applications are due anytime, but chances for funding are better for earlier applications. Decisions on applications will be made within one or two months of submission.For Awards Starting Anytime between Apr. 1 - Sept. 30, 2005.
The PNNL/UW Joint Institute in Nanoscience provides a variety of ways to encourage collaborative research involving the two institutions. The awards described below require application by an interested student, faculty member, or combined UW-PNNL project team. As the JIN and interactions between UW and PNNL have matured it has become desirable to be able to initiate award applications at any time throughout the year that links more closely to funding and research opportunities.
For Awards starting anytime between April 1 and Sept 30, 2005. Each proposal will be evaluated by the JIN selection committee as it arrives, and a decision on funding should be made within one, at the most two, months. Funding will only be approved if there is a close match to PNNL interests and available funding at PNNL, so that coordination of applications with the PNNL staff involved is essential.
Award Catagories
Note that applications for travel grants, single-quarter Graduate Fellowships for Advanced Training, and specific-purpose, short-term (1 or 2 week) faculty salary can be made at any time with an informal request / justification / budget explanation letter to one of the JIN Co-Directors..
Awards will be in the form of student salary/tuition, postdoc salary, faculty salary, travel, or living expenses for periods of up to twelve months starting anytime between April 1,, 2005 and Sept 30, 2005. Award duration and continuation depends upon making satisfactory progress and funding arrangements at PNNL. Graduate student awards (fellowships) will include the graduate student's stipend, benefits, and tuition/fees. Other awards will be for salary and benefits of postdocs or faculty, or travel/housing expenses. Several types of awards can be requested in a single application, but these should be separately listed in the budget. Please indicate the specific type(s) of awards being requested. Award types include:
These can be of two typesJoint Institute Graduate Fellowships
Thesis research activity for UW graduate students involving collaborations between UW and PNNL-up to a three year period, any time at the start or later in the student career. (A student will normally propose these awards with project team support.)Joint Institute Graduate Fellowship for Thesis Research
Research quarter(s) for UW graduate students at PNNL, not necessarily applied directly to thesis work, but designed to optimize the student's learning of advanced research techniques. Some of these fellowships may involve "apprentice" participation on a PNNL project during this learning period or working with Users in the EMSL. Could possibly serve as a "lab rotation" for degrees, which require them (such as the "Nanotechnology PhD Option"). (Proposed by student only.) JIN Graduate Fellowships for Advanced Training for a single quarter duration (non-renewable) can also be made at other times by submitting an informal request / justification / budget explanation letter to one of the JIN Co-DirectorsJoint Institute Graduate Fellowship for Advanced Training
Full or partial salary support for postdoc for research activity in a collaboration involving both UW and PNNL. (Proposed by a team of collaborators from both UW and PNNL, with potential postdoc candidate(s) identified, when known in advance, and appointment period specified.)Joint Institute Postdoctoral Fellowship
Full or partial funding for faculty salary during summer or other quarter research visits to PNNL, or for time spent at either PNNL or UW which is clearly PNNL/UW collaborative research or proposal writing, designed to benefit both PNNL and UW. (Proposed by UW faculty and collaborator(s) from PNNL). Small Faculty salary requests (1 or 2 week) can also be made at other times by submitting an informal request / justification / budget explanation letter to one of the JIN Co-DirectorsJoint Institute Faculty Appointments
Funding of travel to and partial support for housing/living expenses at the partner institution for those involved in joint UW/PNNL collaborations, or for other travel essential to the success of the collaborative research goals.. (Proposed by anyone or group applying for any one of the above award types, or by those whose salary is already paid but for whom travel expenses for the collaboration are not readily covered.) Smaller travel awards can be requested at any time with an informal request / justification / budget explanation letter to one of the JIN Co-Directors.Joint Institute Travel Grant