[] edit Early years
Born in , Bendelow was one of nine children. His parents owned a popular pie shop in the city, and were known for their religious piety. His father taught him the game of golf; however he was trained as a typesetter. There were no careers in golf course design in that era. He courted Mary Ann Nicol, daughter of a prominent farmer. They were married in 1892 at Belhelvie. Bendelow immigrated to the in 1892. His family followed in 1893; the couple had a daughter, born in December 1892. His first job was at the . Aberdeen, Scotland United States [2] New York Herald [1]
[] edit American golf promoter, architect
Once introduced to , the manufacturer, Bendelow's career began to take off in earnest. Prior to this, he had been teaching golf in his spare time -- most notably to the Pratt family of fame, who also commissioned him to build them a private six-hole course at their estate, but Spalding hired him to exclusively promote the game in the and areas. "They were not seeking to design and build championship courses or courses to test the honed skills of the best players, but rather courses that new players could enjoy, courses that would improve player proficiency, courses that would promote participation, and courses that could be maintained at a reasonable expense," according to the . A.G. Spalding sporting goods Standard Oil Long Island [2] New York New Jersey [1] American Society of Golf Course Architects [3]
In 1898, the Park District hired him to redesign and manage the Golf Course, the country's first 18-hole municipal golf course. Bendelow introduced various innovations to American golfers. These included the use of reserve play (tee) times, course marshals, public player associations, public , and training for caddies. He also believed golf should be a sport that the public could play at little to no cost. New York City Van Cortlandt Park golf instruction [3]
[] edit Enhances golf boom
In 1901, Bendelow moved to to be Spalding's Director of Golf Course Development. This era was notable for the extraordinary expansion of golf facilities in North America, with millions of new players, and Bendelow was well placed to encourage and assist this. For the next 16 years, he criss-crossed the U.S. and , laying out courses, providing construction advice, encouraging players' associations, and promoting the growth of the game. In 1917, Bendelow accepted the position of Golf Department Manager with the Thos. E Wilson sporting goods company. In 1920, Bendelow joined Myron West's "American Park Builders Company" in Chicago, as Chief Golf Course Designer, and focused on designing comprehensive city plans, subdivisions, country clubs, golf courses, and golf course communities. These included The Terrace Golf and , Florida (1921), and the (1908). Bendelow also designed park systems -- and even cemeteries -- throughout the United States and Canada. Chicago Canada Country Club Dallas Country Club [4] [] citation needed
Bendelow is recognized as the most prolific of course designers worldwide, a pioneer in the establishment and growth of the game in America. Bendelow personally designed some 700 courses, taught course design at the level, played the game with luminaries such as , and wrote abundantly and beautifully. He even had his own line of Thos. E. Wilson . He exerted a profound impact on the introduction and spread of the game of golf in . college Harry Vardon golf clubs North America [] citation needed
[] edit Design philosophy
Bendelow's approach to course design is a "naturalist's approach," in that he strove to utilize the natural features of the chosen site to maximum advantage. His courses have often been called "Olmstedian", in that his method of design was greatly influenced by the work of prominent Sr. and Jr. "If a site had an especially unique feature - rock outcrop, stream, grove of trees, scenic view - he would work his hole placements in such a way as to take full advantage of the features even if that meant working his layout from the middle out," according to the . "Bendelow s designs changed as the game of golf changed. When given good sites and adequate resources with which to work, he could produce a very challenging lay out, equal to the best work of the day. His personal goal however, was to build good, solid, enjoyable golf courses sporty was his favorite term for use by the vast majority of American golfers." naturalist landscape architects Frederick Law Olmsted American Society of Golf Course Architects [3]
[] edit Prominent designs
"One of Tom Bendelow s early designs was the s 18-hole course at , the place where the great learned the game," wrote Colin Farquharson in a 2006 profile of Bendelow. 'It was extraordinary in that it gave a golfer the opportunity to use every wood and iron in his bag,'said Jones.'" Bendelow also designed in 1904, one of the area s oldest private country clubs. Atlanta Athletic Club East Lake Golf Club Bobby Jones [2] Algonquin Golf Club St. Louis, Missouri
Bendelow is perhaps best known for his three layouts at the Medinah Country Club, with his work on 's Course #3 being famous world-wide. Medinah #3 has served as the host site to several , including the in 1949, 1975, and 1990, as well as the in 1999 and 2006. The 2012 is scheduled to be played on the course, which is widely considered not merely the best course in , but one of the finest golf courses in the United States. However, the #3 course has been very extensively redesigned since Bendelow's time, a common occurrence for courses from that era which are still used for modern championship play. Medinah Country Club major championships U.S. Open PGA Championship Ryder Cup Illinois
He died in Chicago in 1936 at the age of 67. [2]
[] edit Legacy
The groundbreaking 1981 book , by Geoffrey Cornish and Ronald Whitten, was the first to systematically examine the role of golf course architects in the sport's development. The book included a biographical section on prominent golf course architects, and lists of courses which they had designed. Bendelow's work was researched quite thoroughly by Cornish and Whitten, and the book has since been updated with further editions.The Golf Course
Prior to 1981, Bendelow's contribution had been all but forgotten by the golfing community. The "Johnny Appleseed of golf" was often a comment made in derision. Bendelow was inducted into the Illinois Golf Hall of Fame in 2005, reportedly the result of years of efforts by his grandson to restore Bendelow's name to the annals of American golfing history. [2]