Bridal Shower Party Game
Invitations
At your next bridal shower party try this wonderful game! Everyone wants to give advice for the bride. Create a beautiful bouquet of advice for the bride. The hostess will need construction paper, pipe cleaners, and glue. Cut out heart and flower shapes and glue them to the pipe cleaners. They should resemble a flower attached to its stem. They can be arranged in bouquets on the table or handed out to guests as they arrive. Make sure to provide the guests with something to write with as well in order to make it go smoothly. Tell the guests to write advice for the bride on the paper cut outs and place them in a vase. Make sure that they are creative in their advice for the bride to be. When all flowers and hearts have been placed in the vase, have the bride read them aloud. This will make a great keepsake for the bride. As she will have some knowledge that she has gathered from everyone who is there. Give a Bridal Shower Prize for the best advice! The other guests will have to settle for Bridal Shower party favors! Even though your mother told you to cross your legs this fun game will teach you the opposite, don't cross your legs! For your bridal shower party, include a few great games to play with your guests so that everyone is having fun throughout the entire event. Here's a simple bridal shower game that you can play at your shower. Skirt Tails only requires a bag of clothes pins and of course your guests. Each guest receives a clothes pin to clip to their skirt or the bottom of their pants leg. The guests are instructed not to cross their ankles or legs. If another guest catches them crossing their legs or ankles they can take the "offender's" pins. The guest with the most pins at the end of the shower wins the game and the bridal shower prize! Try decorating the pins with pictures or guest names, after the game is over, the decorated pins can be given to the bride-to-be as a gift to remember this festive day! Everyone will have a lot of fun with this game. You'll be surprised how hard it is for us ladies to not cross our legs, especially when we are wearing dresses! Bridal shower party favors can be given out to all that attend! Utensil Necklace anyone? Bridal shower party games should be fun and make everyone laugh. Here is one of the simplest games that you can play to get everyone involved. Have your guests bring or purchase a kitchen utensil. When they arrive at the party you will collect the utensils and attach a ribbon to each and give it to the bride to wear. After the bride has walked around with the utensils for a while, take a picture of her and then tell her to keep the utensils as a gift. For the bride that enjoys having fun, this will be the perfect bridal shower game to play because she ends up with a gift that any new bride would treasure. For the other guests, bridal shower party favors make a great gifts! Hang with the greeting and you'll have a great meeting! Bridal Shower party that is! You are hosting a bridal shower and it is up to you to entertain your guests. Here is a bridal shower game that you can easily play that everyone can participate in and have lots of fun with. Your shower guests can help create a hanger of wisdom for the bride. Take a fancy padded hanger in one of the colors chosen by the bride for her wedding, apply some pretty appliquin another color from the wedding. Then attach long ribbons about 12-18 inches in length. At the end of the ribbon you will attach small white cards (with a hole punched in the corner). The guests will take turns writing special messages on the cards. As they write their message, they will receive their special bridal shower gift. These could be party favors of the bridal shower theme. The hanger should then be presented to the bride so that she can hang her dress on it after the wedding. Bridal shower games like this one where the bride gets to keep something are perfect for memories and very meaningful for all the guests that attend! If I show you my bikini, will you give me your autograph? Here's a great bridal shower party game to play with the girls. Make sure that everyone is okay with it and make sure that someone keeps an eye on the bride. Otherwise, have lots of fun and bring your camera along. Your bride-to-be will have so much fun asking "Can I get your autograph?". Take the bride out to a few local establishments and tell her the drinks are on the house but ONLY if she will wear a pair of long underwear with a bikini on top. While you are out at the bars she will have to get a certain amount of autographs from the patrons before she can get her next drink. She should end up a little tipsy with a body full of autographs. What a fun evening for the bride to be and her guests. Be sure to have party favor gifts for all the guests! with printable games that can be instantly printed right from your printer.  Advice for the Bride
Skirt Tails