How to Build a Fence
Learn how to build a fence with free fence plans.
Free guides on building a privacy fence, garden fence, basic fence and many more.
Fence Projects
Diagram of a lattice pattern on a privacy fence. Download this free pamphlet for a step-by-step guide to build a long-lasting, economical timber fence. Free plans for a picket fence. Follow these free directions to build a basic fence. Its fun, its easy and it will look elegant. Lowe is happy to provide free directions for post and rail fencing. It is one of the easiest fences to build! A well-designed fence is one of the best ways to add personality to your home. Free directions on building your own picket fence. Building a picket fence, alternate board, solid board, louver or basket weave fence is a 3-step process. Follow these simple directions to start building your fence! Add character to your backyard with a cedar privacy screen. Free step-by-step instructions. A solid board fence is made of posts and rails but with a few change it can become more durable and attractive. Follow these free directions now!! Dress up your landscape by adding a picket fence. Follow these simple directions to build your elegant fence today. Free directions for Louver Fencing - Much fancier than standard board fencing. Planning an outdoor project? Follow this detailed plan to build an ageless picket fence. Home Depot presents a free step-by-step project guide to building Board and Batten Fencing. Fancy fences that are easy to build. Click here to choose your style. Free material list and directions on building a board fence. Just 3 main steps to build a sturdy wood panel fence around your garden. Free material list and directions on building a board and lattice fence. Download free directions and diagrams to build your own corner picket fence. Step-by-step instructions on building a pipe and chain-link mesh fence. Free directions on how to choose a fence, what you will need and how to install it. Build a Fence host Jeff Wilson shows how to build a privacy panel fence, step by step in a free five-part workshop. Designed to be built by the intermediate carpenter. Download these free plans to construct your wooden fence today Build a Fence host Jeff Wilson shows how to build a custom picket fence, step by step in a free five-part workshop. Free instructions on how to replace an existing fence with maintenance-free PVC fencing. Material list, tips and more Learn how to install vinyl fencing including digging post holes and working with concrete. With just 6 easy steps you could have your own timber fence. Free directions. Designed and built correctly, a wood fence looks as if it grew just in the right place. Very detailed instructions on building a wooden fence. Free tips and suggestions on how to build wood fences. Tips can save you time, money and effort! Designed and built correctly, a wood fence looks as if it grew just in the right place. Very detailed instructions on building a wooden fence.