Questions to ask in an interview
Introduction:
I found out that the roles and responsibilities of software engineer positions at two companies weren't what I had expected. So I think the following list of questions may help clear up some doubts or confusion about a company and/or a project before you decide to join. It also would help a candidate if he/she can think about what he/she needs.
Development Environment:
Is the build system automated, if yes to how much?
Is there a nightly build and test system in place?
Do developers write tests (unit) to test their code?
Is there a best coding practice guide in place?
Is there a development process (requirements gathering, designing, implementation, testing, etc) in place, if yes what it is?
Project Manager/Management:
What collaboration tools (IM, Wiki, Mail, etc) are being used?
Is there a central place to store project documents (not necessarily word documents) and easily accessible by everyone in the company?
How is project status gathered and published?
What's the project manager's style of managing projects and people?
What's the background of project manager?
How is the change managed? For example, bug fixes in the version V1 and developing new features for version V2 of a product.
Who takes care of a customer and how, customer problems and bugs in a product?
Does manager has development background and does manager aware of latest technologies?
Organization:
Is the organization agile and adapts easily to changes?
Does the organization provide an environment for creativity and innovation?
What kind of office environment (open, cubicle, office, etc) does the organization provide?
Project(s):
Is the project solving significant problems, possibly using innovative/creative ways?
What's a typical release cycle?
Conclusion:
The above list may help you assess the potential of a job, I think the right way of finding out if a job is suitable for you and you're a suitable candidate for a job is to date a job for 3 months or so.