For Immediate ReleaseContact: Tom Prichard                                                               
Tuesday, December 18, 2008                                                                612.600.3136     
 
President-elect Barack Obama selects evangelical pastor Rick Warren to deliver the invocation at his inauguration
Social conservative group applauds Obama selection Warren to pray at his inauguration.
Minneapolis Tom Prichard, President of the Minnesota Family Council (MFC) today, applauded the selection of California evangelical pastor Rick Warren to give the invocation at President-elect Obama inauguration next month.
applaud Mr. Obama decision to have Pastor Warren give the invocation at next month presidential inauguration.It demonstrates a respect for those who, while disagreeing with him on significant issues, also have a serious concern for the moral, spiritual and social welfare of our nation.It sends the message the Mr. Obama will be president of all Americans not just those who support all his policies,said Prichard.  
Mr. Obama received immediate criticism from some of his supporters, particularly homosexual activists.(See  www.foxnews.com/politics/2008/12/18/obamas-rick-warren-inauguration-pick-sparks-gay-fury/ )They object to Pastor Warren because he was a strong proponent of Proposition 8, the state marriage amendment in his home state of California. 
astor Warren certainly disagrees with Obama on significant issues like protecting unborn children and the institution of marriage.But Warren has also demonstrated a great concern for the spiritual, moral and social needs of all Americans, particularly the less fortunate.He's demonstrated this concern through his church ministry and work on the AIDS and poverty issues.Mr. Obama inclusion of Pastor Warren signals that he recognizes the importance of the evangelical community Pastor Warren represents.He will need them and other Americans to deal with the challenges facing our nation,added Prichard.    
e certainly disagree with and will strongly oppose Mr. Obama on a number of his policy initiatives, but where we agree we will support him on those initiatives.The selection of Pastor Warren to participate in his inauguration was the right thing to do,concluded Prichard. 
.The Minnesota Family Council is Minnesota largest nonprofit, non-partisan pro-family organization
2855 Anthony Lane South. Suite 150iMinneapolis, MN 55418-3265
612-789-8811iFax 612-789-8858iwww.mfc.org