 
Selling a Home
With the market constantly moving, selling a home can be financial rewarding. Many homeowners will make money from the sale of their property. However, there are specific methods to make sure you do make the most from the sale of your principal or investment property, thus minimize the tax on the gain.
This site was designed as a consumer service to help sellers make informed real estate decisions. We know that it is often difficult to get relevant information when you are looking to sell.
In order to better educate and inform sellers we have provided comprehensive information as a FREE no obligation service. Many sellers who visit this site are so impressed with this service they will contact us in order to assist them in selling their own home.
Here below are some of the different things you may look at before putting your property on the market. We truly hope that you find this information and resources helpful and we look forward to helping you with your move.
. Find out what tax you will need to pay on the gain and if there are other hidden costs to you.- Sit down with your accountant
. Keeping the place in a tidy manner and removing all unnecessary items can really make your property stand out more. Tidy up the garden, make sure that it gives a good vibe.- Removing clutter
. Don rely just on one agent, ask a few agents for an appraisal. Look at what on the market and which agency has a dominant market place. It more then just giving you a price. Look at the whole package!- Finding the right agent
Generate an idea of how much your property is worth! Ask around, if youe seen properties like yours on the market see what they sold for. Remember, do your own research and when an agent comes out to meet you, you will already have an idea and can be more prepared for what the agent says.- Understanding prices/ how much is it worth?
. Each agency uses different methods of marketing; there is no right and wrong way to market a property. Every agent will have there own method but make sure it what suits you as well. Some may ask for ridiculous amount of money to promote your property, don give in. Make sure they work in with you to best promote your property.- Marketing tactics
Selling your home can be a puzzling process. You undoubtedly will have fears about who do you trust, how much will you get after commission and advertising and will you get hassled to drop your price so the agent can get an easy deal? Do your homework! Less surprises and less stress!
Selling