[] edit Air times
normally airs live on weekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., as well as at 6:00 p.m. (typically 90 minutes), 11:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. (typically 60 minutes each), . The 1:00 a.m. edition is repeated at 2:00 a.m. and again from 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.SportsCenter ET
Saturday viewers see a new episode from 10:00 a.m. to noon, along with the evening airings as above. On Sundays, a half-hour episode airs at 9:00 a.m. and another edition of varying length airs at 10:30 a.m.; the 11:00 p.m. edition airs for 90 minutes on Sundays and is repeated through the night. In the event of live sports coverage on the network, the show is occasionally delayed or moved to another ESPN channel. The show also is known to start early and run long, if the preceding game ends ahead of schedule or if breaking news warrants.
[] edit History
[] edit Standard definition era
introduced the country to ESPN when he co-anchored the first ever on September 7, . His fellow anchor was Lee Leonard, a longtime New York broadcaster. According to , Leonard spoke these words as the show opened: "If you're a fan, what you will see in the next few minutes, hours, and days to follow may convince you that you've gone to sports heaven." (Entertainment Weekly, 8 September 2000, p. 94) Grande spent ten more years with ESPN and until . Another early addition to the show was , who joined ESPN a month after it was on the air, and became a fixture at SportsCenter until the early '90s, when his main efforts became focused on the network's and ; however, Berman remains a frequent contributor to the Sunday night 11 p.m. edition. also began anchoring early in the show's history and still regularly appears on the Sunday morning in addition to hosting . George Grande SportsCenter 1979 Entertainment Weekly SportsCenter 1989 Chris Berman NFL coverage Baseball Tonight Bob Ley SportsCenter Outside the Lines
Early graphics and music included various kinds of sports balls flying outward, featuring a rapid-fire electronic audio track that was a version of "Pulstar," by . By the early 1990s, the first of several theme songs to incorporate ESPN's trademark "duh-nuh-nuh, duh-nuh-nuh" fanfare was in use. The current theme music was composed by , a composer who also co-wrote 's hit "." Vangelis Annie Roboff Faith Hill 1998 This Kiss [1]
Throughout the 1990s, SportsCenter's set saw many changes (see below). In , ESPN began the ad campaign to promote their show. 1994 This is SportsCenter [2]
The 11 p.m. anchor team of and achieved great popularity in the late '80s and the '90s (interrupted by Olbermann's brief move to ESPN2 at that channel's launch). After Olbermann left ESPN in 1997, became Patrick's co-host; when Patrick moved to the 6:00 p.m. edition, and became the top anchor team. Dan Patrick Keith Olbermann Kenny Mayne Rich Eisen Stuart Scott
During the summer of 2001, after ESPN, Inc. acquired a share of sports network , that network's sports news program, , was re-branded as (using ). Canadian TSN SportsDesk SportsCentre Canadian spelling
[] edit September 11, 2001 and The show that nearly wasn't
On , ESPN interrupted regular programming at 11:05 a.m. to cover the immediate aftermath of the through a of . The network considered not airing that night, and debated the topic for about an hour. Finally, a half-hour version aired which reported on the impact the attacks had on the sports world; announcing the cancellations of major U.S. sporting events that had been announced up to that time. September 11, 2001 Eastern Time attacks on America simulcast ABC News SportsCenter [3]
[] edit High definition era
broadcasting started on June 7, 2004, and on the same day began broadcasting the show from studios inside the network's brand-new Digital Center, debuting a new set designed by and featuring a robust graphics package entitled "Revolution" designed by . During that summer, ESPN celebrated their 25th anniversary, , by counting down the top 100 moments of the past 25 years. They showed the countdown every day starting May 31, 2004, until the #1 moment, the 's victory over the during the , was aired on September 7, 2004. High definition Walt Disney Imagineering Troika Design Group ESPN25 U.S. Olympic Men's Ice Hockey Team USSR 1980 Winter Olympics
premiered a segment called "," during the summer of 2005, where a different anchor traveled to a different state every day to discover the sports, sports history, and athletes of the state.SportsCenter 50 States in 50 Days SportsCenter [4]
On April 4, 2006, started showing highlights of games in progress, which were previously an exclusive to another program, . This is seen in the segment. Prior to that date, highlights of the aforementioned Major League Baseball games weren't shown on until the games went final (as shown on the ticker at the bottom of the screen, known as the "").SportsCenter Major League Baseball Baseball Tonight Baseball Tonight ExtraSportsCenter BottomLine
On February 11, 2007, after the game between the and the , the 30,000th show aired. In that milestone show, recapped the events (and not-so-great moments) during the first 10,000 shows, did the same during the middle 10,000, as did during the remaining 10,000. and were the anchors on that 30,000th show. They also began broadcasting , which is a web-streaming one-minute update seen exclusively on . NBA Chicago Bulls Phoenix Suns SportsCenter Bob Ley Chris Berman Dan Patrick Steve Levy Stuart Scott SportsCenter MinuteSportsCenter ESPN.com
The 11 p.m. edition on May 6, 2007 saw another major change, as introduced a "rundown" graphic across the right side of the screen. This feature appears only during reruns of the overnight show Monday through Saturday and on the main Sunday night program, and on ESPNHD, fills the right where the ESPNHD logo would usually appear during standard definition footage. Eastern Time SportsCenter pillarbox
The 6 p.m. ET edition of moved up to 5 p.m. ET on May 28, 2007, and -- for the first time ever -- it was extended to three hours. In that episode, ESPN aired live coverage of ' second start for the ' minor league club in .SportsCenter Roger Clemens New York Yankees Scranton, Pennsylvania
The 11pm ET edition of on August 7, 2007, which was anchored by John Buccigross and , showed live coverage of ' 756th career , which broke the old record set by .SportsCenter Cindy Brunson Barry Bonds home run MLB Hank Aaron
[] edit 2008 daytime expansion
On August 11, 2008, during the opening week of the , began airing live from 9am to 3pm . The original plan was to start the live block at 6am; however, the network decided to scale it back to start at 9am. Beijing Olympic Games SportsCenter ET
Former NBC Sports and anchor has joined ESPN to host the 9am to noon block. The new format now includes two teams of two anchors in three-hour shifts: CBS Early Show Hannah Storm [5]
Noon - 3pm ET: , Robert Flores Chris McKendry
Storm will also co-anchor the Sunday morning edition with , replacing McKendry. Steele will provide updates every 20 minutes from 6 am until noon, Mondays through Thursdays. Bob Ley [6]
This change also includes a new SportsCenter.com Web site to promote more interaction with viewers. The SportsCenter.com site was launched 8/11/08. [7]
To promote these changes, ESPN held a casting of their employees to see who would be on almost 25 live and unscripted commercials a day. Steve Braband, an International Programmer, won, and can be seen about every half-hour (excluding from 1 to 4 CST) on ESPN. Additionally, the website was opened, with Steve's daily appearance schedule, blog, and video clips of past appearances and audition footage.steveislive.com