Asbestos Asbestos Related Diseases
Asbestos Cancer
Mesothelioma, sometimes referred to as asbestos cancer is a malignancy that occurs in the lining of the lungs, abdomen, and heart. Mesothelioma is generally diagnosed as one of the following three types. occurs in the lining of the lungs, known as the pleura. Peritoneal mesothelioma occurs in the lining of the abdominal cavity, known as the peritoneum. occurs in the lining of the heart, known as the pericardium. Pleural mesothelioma Pericardial mesothelioma
What Causes Asbestos Cancer
Asbestos cancer is referred to as such because development of mesothelioma is conclusively linked to asbestos exposure. Asbestos is a fibrous mineral that was used for centuries in a number of different industrial capacities. While it was quite useful, unfortunately it was also carcinogenic, leading to most asbestos products being banned in the late 1970's.
Pleural mesothelioma is caused by inhaled asbestos fibers which lodge in the pleura and lung wall. Because they are quite durable, they cannot be broken down by chemical means or expelled by other body functions. is caused by either ingested asbestos fibers which lodge beneath the digestive tract or fibers which affect the lymph nodes. Pericardial mesothelioma's precise cause is uncertain but physicians and researchers believe the microscopic asbestos fibers actually enter the bloodstream through the lungs and become affixed to the lining of the heart in transfer. Asbestos fibers on this delicate tissue cause a sustained inflammation of the area, causing harmful scar tissue and mesothelioma cells to develop. Peritoneal mesothelioma
How is asbestos cancer treated?
The Prognosis is not always encouraging in cases. Often, many patients die within 18 months of their diagnosis. Mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer and the locale of the disease within the body often restricts surgical treatment. In most cases, patients will be given chemotherapy and radiation to slow the disease and ease symptoms of the disease. Survival rates however, are being extended further and more research is now being invested in to evaluate new options for treatment of the disease. malignant mesothelioma
How is asbestos cancer diagnosed?
Asbestos cancer diagnosis can be difficult because symptoms of the disease can closely mimic those of other more minor respiratory complications. Symptoms, such as shortness of breath, chest pain, or chronic cough may lead physicians to suspect , particularly if the patient has a known asbestos exposure history. mesothelioma
If you have questions regarding treatment or your legal rights, please . contact us
Last modified:January 13 2009