- - - Multi Park Passes Attraction Information Location Hotels near Disneyland Resort
Halloween Time at the Resort with your Discount Disneyland TicketsDisneyland
Gussy up your little goblins in Halloween costumes and take the whole family to enjoy the merry enchantment of Halloween Time at the Resort haunting Guests from September 26 to November 2! It's a spooktacular celebration. Scare up your favorite little ghouls and goblins, and head over to an event so delightfully high-spirited that even the spookiest specters can't help but sing a happy tune Halloween Time at DisneylandResort!  From September 26 to November 2 with your Discount Disneyland Tickets or Discount Disney Park Hopper Passes, enjoy enough mysteriously enchanted Halloween attractions, entertainment, decorations, food and merchandise to make even the grimmest ghosts grin!Disneyland
ALLURING ATTRACTIONS
TRICKS & TREATS
"Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas" puts a festive spin on a classic DisneylandPark attractionHaunted Mansion Holiday
See the DisneylandResort Halloween decorations now bigger and better than ever!Halloween Decorations
Check into a haunted hotel for a truly terror-rific Halloween experience!Twilight Zone Tower of Terrorbr>
Greet some of your favorite Disney Characters dressed in colorful Halloween customs!Costumed Disney Characters
Join Woody and his friends for a good old-fashioned wild west Halloween celebration!Woody's Halloween Roundup
There is no trick to this treat enjoy delicious Halloween food and tasty seasonal beverages!Halloween Themed Food and Beverage
NOTE: Your discount Disneyland tickets and discount Disney Park Hopper passes grant you full access to all the above activities so order your discount Disneyland tickets and discount Disney Park Hopper passes NOW!
Discount Disneyland Tickets (5 DayPark HopperBONUSTickets)
The value-priced 5 day Discount Disneyland Tickets entitle you to admittance to both
and park. Disneyland park Disney California Adventure Now save even more with the new WILL CALL feature. Order your Disneyland Discount Tickets in advance and we will have them waiting at the front gate when you arrive!
PLUS enjoy savings over the main entrance prices and get in earlier than the general public!5 Day discount Disneylandtickets includes one early entry admission.
All DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets are subject to certain restrictions and , whichever occurs first. Each day of use of a DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Ticket constitutes one full day of use.expire 13 days after first use or on January 18, 2009
. Magic Morning allows admission into selected attractions at a designated Theme Park before the park opens to the public on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Based on availability, does not operate daily, subject to change without notice. Park HopperBonus Tickets include one admission for Magic Morning
Discount Disneyland Tickets (4 DayPark HopperBONUSTickets)
The value-priced 4 day Discount Disneyland Tickets entitle you to admittance to both
and park. Disneyland park Disney California Adventure Now save even more with the new WILL CALL feature. Order your Disneyland Discount Tickets in advance and we will have them waiting at the front gate when you arrive!
PLUS enjoy savings over the main entrance prices and get in earlier than the general public!4 Day discount Disneylandtickets includes one early entry admission.
All DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets are subject to certain restrictions and , whichever occurs first. Each day of use of a DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Ticket constitutes one full day of use.expire 13 days after first use or on January 18, 2009
. Magic Morning allows admission into selected attractions at a designated Theme Park before the park opens to the public on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Based on availability, does not operate daily, subject to change without notice. Park HopperBonus Tickets include one admission for Magic Morning
Discount Disneyland Tickets (3 DayPark HopperBONUSTickets)
The value-priced 3 day Discount Disneyland Tickets entitle you to admittance to both
and park. Disneyland park Disney California Adventure Now save even more with the new WILL CALL feature. Order your Disneyland Discount Tickets in advance and we will have them waiting at the front gate when you arrive!
PLUS enjoy savings over the main entrance prices and get in earlier than the general public!3 Day discount Disneylandtickets includes one early entry admission.
All DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets are subject to certain restrictions and , whichever occurs first. Each day of use of a DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Ticket constitutes one full day of use.expire 13 days after first use or on January 18, 2009
. Magic Morning allows admission into selected attractions at a designated Theme Park before the park opens to the public on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Based on availability, does not operate daily, subject to change without notice. Park HopperBonus Tickets include one admission for Magic Morning
Discount Disneyland Tickets (2DayPark Hopper /font>Tickets)
The value-priced 2 day Discount Disneyland Tickets entitle you to admittance to both
and park. Disneyland park Disney California Adventure Now save even more with the new WILL CALL feature. Order your Disneyland Discount Tickets in advance and we will have them waiting at the front gate when you arrive!
2 Day discount Disneylandtickets does NOT include early entry admission.
All DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets are subject to certain restrictions and , whichever occurs first. Each day of use of a DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Ticket constitutes one full day of use.expire 13 days after first use or on January 18, 2009
2008 Southern California CityPass5 - Park VALUE!!bundles; a stunning visit to San Diego two world-class parks; a choice of the OR the ; and (CityPass includes a 1-Day visit to each.) Then take your time and motor up the coast to spend some time up north with a 3-Day Ticket - valid for unlimited admission to both park and park for three days; and a 1-Day visit to . San Diego Zoo San Diego Zoo's Wild Animal Park SeaWorld Disneyland Resort Park Hopper Disneyland Disney's California Adventure Universal Studios
delivers six days of unforgettable fun and adventure at aDiscount Southern California CityPasssavings of over 25 percentand 14 days to take it all in. 14 days starts from the day you visit your first Amusement Park and you may visit the parks in any order you like!
Ticket book is valid for 14 days from first use. Southern California CityPass is valid from January 3, 2008 - January 2, 2009. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CITYPASS MUST BE PICKED UP AT DISNEYLAND RESORT. Guests may pick up their tickets at any main entrance ticket window. Personal photo identification will be required.
Disneyland Park in Anaheim, California first opened it's gates to the public in 1955. Walt Disney's dream had been to build a theme park that could be enjoyed by both children and adults alike. It has been a legend ever since, making it the appiest place on Earth
Just before reaching the castle, guests encounter the Central Plaza, which is the hub of the whole park, with walkways leading off to the other main areas Main Street, U.S.A., Adventureland, New Orleans Square, Critter Country, Frontierland, Fantasyland, Mickey's Toontown and Tomorrowland. Each themed area has exciting rides and attractions, something for the young and the young at heart that only Disney could imagine.
Must Sees at Disneyland Park:
Disneyland /i> park Main Street, U.S.A.
Walt Disney once said, "I love the nostalgic myself. I hope we never lose some of the things of the past." So he created Disneyland Park's Main Street, U.S.A. to make sure we could always embrace those wonderful feelings of days gone by. From the decor in the old-time specialty shops to the music in Central Plaza to the taste of the ice cream sundaes, Main Street is pure Americana.
Disneyland /i> parkAdventureland
For those of us who dream of the mystery, intrigue and romance of a life far from civilization, Disneyland Park's Adventureland is the perfect playground-whether you're cruising through the African jungles, avoiding poison darts and snakes while searching for ancient artifacts, or simply sampling the tropical faire in the village shops.
Disneyland /i> parkNew Orleans Square
Even the ghosts at the Haunted Mansion will tell you that Disneyland Park's New Orleans Square is one lively place. The hottest jazz sounds, the best in Southern cuisine, Mardi Gras souvenirs waiting to be unmasked, and attractions with timeless appeal.
 
Disneyland /i>
parkCritter Country
Brer Rabbit and his Song of the South pals call Disneyland Park's Critter Country home-but you're welcome, too. Come on in, enjoy the calming sounds of nature; sip a tasty beverage along the peaceful riverbanks; and experience a downright spectacular mountain ride that gives a whole new meaning to the word "wildlife"!
Disneyland /i>parkFrontierland
Frontierland is a place that pulses with the energy of ideals and dreams of our forefathers. From the bustle of early transportation on the Rivers of America to the western-themed shows, shops and eateries, Disneyland Park's Frontierland celebrates the spirit and strength of the American pioneer.
Disneyland /i> parkFantasyland
Through the entrance to Sleeping Beauty Castle await the fairy-tale worlds of Snow White, Cinderella, Peter Pan, Dumbo, Mr. Toad, Alice and Pinocchio. Dedicated to the young at heart, Disneyland Park's Fantasyland brings to life a wonderful, magical world of make-believe; an enchanted land where dreams really do come true.
Disneyland /i> parkMickey's Toontown
You're always welcome in this fanciful community where Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Goofy, Roger Rabbit and the rest of the gang live, work and play. Disneyland Park's Mickey's Toontown is about the wackiest, looniest place you'll ever see; then again, what would you expect from Toons?!
Disneyland /i> parkTomorrowland
"A World on the Move," Tomorrowland is an ever-changing expanse of technology and invention. From the pulse-pounding state-of-the-art attractions like Star Tours and Space Mountain, to the revolving education center called Innoventions, Tomorrowland is truly a tribute to the power of the human mind.
Disneyland park Location...
1313 S Disneyland Dr., Anaheim, CA. USA
  Follow the signs to Sepulveda Blvd. South. Take I-105 E to I-605 N/S exit. Merge onto I-605 N. Take I-5/Santa Ana FWY towards Los Angeles/Santa Ana. Merge onto I-5. Continue for 12.7 miles until you reach the Disneyland Dr.exit toward Ball Rd. Merge onto Disneyland Dr.    Go E on East Airport Dr. towards Rental Car. Turn right on S Haven Ave. Take the CA-60 W ramp. Continue for 15.3 miles. Take CA-57 S towards Santa Ana. Merge onto CA-57S. Take Ball Rd. exit. Turn right onto E Ball Rd. Turn left onto Disneyland Dr.From the Los Angeles Airport:
From the Ontario Airport:
DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets include one admission for early entry into a designated theme park. An early entry admission allows access to a designated DisneylandResort theme park before the park opens to the general public. To enhance your early entry experience, it is strongly recommended that Guests arrive at least 15 minutes prior to regular park opening. While not available daily, the feature will be available multiple times per week. Applicable theme park, days and times of operation and all other elements including, without limitation, operation of attractions, entertainment, stores and restaurants and appearances of characters may vary and are subject to change without notice. Subject to capacity and other restrictions. Offer available through January 2, 2008. Applicable theme park, days and times of operation and all other elements including, without limitation, operation of attractions, entertainment, stores and restaurants and appearances of characters may vary and are subject to change without notice. Subject to capacity and other restrictions.   DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets entitle Guests to admittance to both DisneylandResort Theme Parks over a specified number of days, including visits to both Theme Parks on the same day. All DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Tickets are subject to certain restrictions and expire 13 days after first use or on January 18, 2009, whichever occurs first. Each day of use of a DisneylandResort Park HopperBonus Ticket constitutes one full day of use. Park HopperBonus Tickets include one admission for Magic Morning. Magic Morning allows admission into selected attractions at a designated Theme Park before the park opens to the public on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Based on availability, does not operate daily, subject to change without notice. Applicable Theme Park days and times of operation and all other elements including, but not limited to, operation of attractions, entertainment, stores and restaurants and appearances of Characters may vary and are subject to change without notice. Subject to capacity and other restrictions. Tickets may not be sold or transferred for commercial use. Offer may not be combined with any other ticket offer, discount, or promotion. All offers, events, tickets, age ranges, services, attractions and entertainment may be seasonal and are subject to change without notice. isney  All tickets are non-refundable/non-returnable. We are unable to issue exchanges or refunds after a purchase has been made or for lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed tickets.Terms & Conditions for 2007 Tickets
Offer available through January 2, 2008. All DisneylandResort Park HopperTickets expire 13 days after first use or January 15, 2008, which ever occurs first.
Terms & Conditions for 2008 Tickets
d Water Park Tickets