The home page of the finishing industry®
If it involves surface finishing, finishing.com has the answers
Silver Plating at Home
Can you do silver plating of rings, jewelry, platters, cups, flatware and awards, at home? If so, where do you get the materials and how do you do it?
 
Introduction
If you already know the brand name you are seeking, please feel free to . These introductory paragraphs are for those readers who would like to really understand what silver plating is about, what the differences are between what you can do at home and the services you get from a plating shop, etc. skip ahead to "Sourcing"
"Immersion Silvering"
If you have an old item which was originally silver plated and you wish to build up the thin spots, and if the item will not see heavy wear, you be able to apply additional silver to it at home, with no electricity required, from a simple wipe-on or dip process sold under trade names by a number of vendors. These processes are called "immersion plating" regardless of whether you dip the articles into the solution or you wipe the solution onto the article, because that name comes from the nature of the chemical reaction.may
Just as a battery can be made from carbon + zinc, or from nickel + cadmium, a battery can be made from copper + silver. What happens in immersion plating is that the silver in the solution and the exposed brass or copper of the item in question form a battery wherever the silver has worn through. The silver is more "noble" than the copper; this provides a voltage that simultaneously dissolves the exposed copper into solution while plating out the silver that was in solution.
The two basic limitations of the process are, first, that once the copper or brass has an extremely thin silver plating over it, there is no more exposed copper and the "battery" goes dead, and no more silver will deposit. Therefore you can only get a very very thin coating of silver -- millionths of an inch -- so the durability and longevity is very seriously limited. Second, not all metals will react and form a battery with silver that way. If the base metal of your article doesn't form a useful battery with silver, no resilvering can take place.
Many of our readers report being very satisfied with this immersion silvering. All of the wipe-on or dip-in brands work on exactly the same principal, which is not to say that all the brands are identical; some readers feel that some brands are better than others, and it may have to do with the silver concentration, the ease of use, the polishing agents in the mix, etc.
Real silver electroplating
In simplest terms the difference between immersion silvering and what is done at a silver plating shop is that the plater employs an external source of DC current (a rectifier) so the plating proceeds regardless of the material of construction of the item being plated and continues long past the point where the base metal is merely covered, on until a very significant thickness of silver is deposited (measured in thousandths of an inch instead of millionths). So the longevity and durability of real silver electroplating is in a whole different class than immersion plating. Naturally, the plating shop may also employ a number of other processes on the item: covering over any solder, filling any pits with copper, leveling with nickel plating, buffing to a nice luster, etc. The plating shop may also apply a tarnish-inhibiting topcoat of electrophoretic lacquer or rhodium over the silver.
The next question that may arise is whether you can do this real silver electroplating at home, and the answer unfortunately is no. Decorative silver electroplating is always done from a cyanide-based solution, and cyanide is one of the deadliest and fastest acting poisons known. Ingestion of even a few drops is fatal but, just as bad, if the solution is accidentally acidified, deadly hydrogen cyanide gas is released (mixing acid and cyanide is how the gas chamber operates). You probably won't find a vendor anywhere who will ship this chemical to a residence.
Is it possible to do silver electroplating from a non-cyanide solution? Well, 95% of all silver plating is done from cyanide and has been for a hundred years despite intense efforts to find a substitute across many decades. Although there are some proprietary non-cyanide solutions, they are more difficult to operate, more costly, more troublesome, and less versatile; and they are designed for electronics plating, not for decorative silver plating because the color isn't quite right. It is not possible to do silver plating from silver nitrate, photographic chemicals, or anything like that.
If you can get results that are satisfactory to you from an over-the-counter immersion plating process, great. If not, send the item to a . silver plating shop
For an affordable introductory education in electroplating, we recommend getting a copy of the . Some libraries may have it but, if not, because it is an annual book that is included with a subscription to Metal Finishing magazine, old copies are readily available and very inexpensive from used book dealers. Metal Finishing Guidebook
Sourcing of resilvering solution
Many different immersion silvering products have been recommended by our readers across our 45,000 hotline letters. But companies go out of business, they move, they change distributorships, and it was proving impossible to keep hundreds of references current when scattered across tens of thousands of entries. So instead, we will keep this page current with the sourcing info for all of those products.
2. -->Medallion Liquid Silver Plating Lotion avail. at this link
3. --> www.quickshine.co.uk. Caution: Quickshine Silver Bath is a different product and appears to be for tarnish removal/polishing, not for resilvering, and currently has .Quickshine Pure Plating Spray horrible reviews on Amazon
4. --> should show when you click the "View all" link at the bottom of the E-bay ad to the right. Or go to [Sorry, this store appears to be closed]Silver Plating Formula stores.ebay.com/Collectors-Secret
5. --> [United Kingdom] proidee.co.uk/shop; search for silver platerSilver Plater
6. --> silversecret.comSilver Secret
7. --> [United Kingdom] (link is not working, Jan '08)The Silver Solutionspeed-demon.supanet.com/replate.htm
8. --> we are presently not able to find a source.Miracle Silver
9. - we are presently not able to find a source.Nu Silver
10. - we are presently not able to find a source.Silveron
In addition to the listed sources, several brands of this product are usually available on E-bay, and hopefully the ever-changing E-bay ad at right proves helpful at the time you are reading this (if it shows some get-rich-quick scheme, sorry, that means no silver solution is advertised today).
Are some of these resilvering products better than others?
That's for you to decide! Some opinions have been expressed on the many Hotline Letters we have printed here including letter nos. , , , , , , , , , , , and . 1432 5830 6167 7037 11982 21293 21581 23506 23972 26537 28810 28994
Please feel free to follow up by posting any questions you may have on any of those letters or in our public forum at http://finishing.com/Letters
del.icio.us -->   