www.GripStik.com
Gripstik works on the idea of a 'screw.' As you rotate the handles together tension increases, as a result of a heavy spring between the two handles. Consequently, rotating the handles back and forth provides a resistance to the working muscles of the wrists and forearms by way of the spring. As one forearm flexors work, the opposite forearm's extensors work, and this is done back and forth for complete forearm muscle integration. And the more tension desired, the more the handles are to be screwed in prior to starting exercise (to compress the spring), whereas less desired resistance would necessitate starting exercise with less tension on the spring, which means that the handles are to be unscrewed to the desired extent.
There are various uses for this device from exercise enthusiast, to professional athlete, to injury rehabilitation. From the perspective of the fitness enthusiast and athlete, Gripstik provides good resistance, but nothing exceptional, viz., it's not so challenging that you never will outgrow the tension. This is not a downfall if viewed in the right context. A person with strong forearms may not find the tension sufficient, although most will find it fatiguing to a good extent when following the directions. And that is the crux of the situation. The forearms consist of very dense tissue and they can take a lot of abuse and use. The problem is, doing heavy forearm work regularly (multiple times per week) can lead to elbow or wrist problems. Thus, the forearms need to be fatigued regularly to optimize development, strength and muscular endurance, but such work cannot consist only of heavy barbell wrist curls and reverse curls. The Gripstik can be used daily, if desired, or every second day as recommended by the manufacturer.
Of course, its use also is applicable to pre- and post-exhaust work. Used prior to heavy forearm work, the fatigue induced by Gripstik reduces the need for heavier loads when training with free weights, thus saving strain on the connective tissues. And then, once the 'heavier' work is completed, the Gripstik again can be used for an unbelievable finishing burn and pump.
Moreover, one can feel the difference in how this device works. The range-of-motion with the Gripstik is far more extensive than what can be achieved with traditional forearm work in comfort, and that adds up to more complete development and strength, as well as overall function. Usually heavier work involves shorter strokes in range, which seems to take hold the heavier a person trains with barbell wrist curls and reverse wrist curls. This makes the Gripstik a nice little adjunct to forearm training and functional ability.
In regard to rehab work, this device is being used at the I.A.R.T. facility with a few individuals, one of whom has elbow problems (as a result of an automobile accident) and the other with wrist problems (long term carpal tunnel syndrome). Unlike other wrist and forearm work tried, the Gripstik thus far has produced either less pain or no pain while exercising.
Here are a few tips to optimize your Gripstik use:
Squeeze your grip as hard as possible on every rep; do not simply rotate the handle back and forth with a modest grip.
Attempt to flex/contract the muscles of the forearms on every rep.
As the flexors of one forearm works, the extensors of the other forearm will work, and this is done in an alternating fashion. However, try to keep tension even between the two forearms so that flexion does not donimante over extension or vice versa.
For more information and details for proper use, visit . www.Gripstik.com
 