Brazil
General Information
The fifth largest country in the world covering almost half of the South American continent, Brazil is a country of superlatives.  The Amazon is the largest expanse of rainforest on the planet, much of it still to be explored, while the vast wetlands of the Pantanal offer a density of wildlife unknown outside Africa.  With thousands of miles of unspoilt coastline and enticing beaches, a unique blend of African and European cultures and vibrant cosmopolitan cities such as Rio de Janeiro with its world famous Carnival, Brazil awaits the visitor with an energy and a rhythm of its own.
THE AMAZON
Stretching from the Andes to the Atlantic, the mighty Amazon River is the longest in the world, winding its way through a lush tropical rainforest that occupies more than half of Brazil’s total area and which is home to an infinite variety of exotic plants, animals and birds.  At the green heart of this vast region lies the isolated port of Manaus, whose opulent Opera House recalls the period in the late 19 century when the city was the world’s rubber capital.  This improbable metropolis is the gateway to the jungle; you can take river cruises or access a variety of lodges where experienced naturalist guides will take you deep into the rainforest.  At the river’s mouth, as it reaches the Atlantic, lies the vibrant city of Bel where elegant Portuguese colonial buildings stand in marked contrast to a spectacularly modern skyline.  Easily visited from Bel is MarajIsland – the largest river island in the world – with its excellent beaches and prolific wildlife.th
THE NORTHEAST
It was along the northeast coast that Brazil's colonisation began and the ‘African’ heritage that resulted from the slave trade is still evident in the religion, cuisine and racial mix of the region.  Salvador (Bahia) was the nation’s first capital and contains some beautiful colonial-style townhouses, churches and forts and is a centre of traditional music, folklore and customs such as the voodoo-like Candombland the Capoeira martial ballet.  Other colonial gems in the Northeast include Olinda, declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1982, and Lenis, the base for visiting the Chapada Diamantina National Park, a haven for trekking and horse riding with its spectacular table-top mountains and its beautiful waterfalls and rivers.  With miles of azure coastline, Brazil's northeast coast offers beautiful uncrowded beaches, some world-class resorts and a tropical climate that can be enjoyed throughout the year.  Natal’s beautiful white sand dunes are well worth a visit, as is the Lenis Maranhenses National Park with its unique and delicate ecosystem of beaches, lakes and dunes and a largely unstudied wildlife.  For diving enthusiasts, or those wishing to just get away from it all, there is no better place than the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha, an island paradise 345 km from Brazil’s coast and reached by flights from the mainland.
RIO & THE SOUTHEAST
No visit to Brazil is complete without a few days in Rio de Janeiro, “the Marvellous City”, where you can stroll along the famous beaches of Copacabana and Ipanema and take a cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain for amazing views of what is undoubtedly one of the world's most beautiful cities.  Brazil's Southeast is an area of exciting diversity and includes the important cosmopolitan city of S Paulo and historic Portuguese colonial towns such as Ouro Preto, which retains a delightful 18 century atmosphere with its cobblestone streets, fountains, mansions and Baroque churches.th
CARNIVAL & NEW YEAR
Brazil's renowned fun-loving spirit can best be appreciated during the exuberant celebrations of Carnival and New Year.  The Rio Carnival has been dubbed the 'greatest show on earth', a five day extravaganza when the city’s streets are thronged with drumming and dancing revellers having the time of their lives and a festival which also features the astonishingly colourful parades of the famous Samba Schools.  Rio is also the place to be for New Year's Eve as the city flocks to Copacabana Beach for the world's most spectacular fireworks display.  Not to be outdone, Salvador, the Bahian capital, is home to the world’s longest and largest Carnival celebration, an immense street party the highlights of which are the vast drum troupes (some with up to 200 drummers) known as the ‘Afro Blocos’.
THE GREEN COAST
The Green Coast stretches south from Rio de Janeiro and is a beautiful area of luxuriant rainforests, islands, beaches and charming colonial towns.  Its proximity to Rio and its natural beauty make the region the ideal place to relax before or after your tour.  In the picturesque port town of Paraty, a national historic monument nestled between the sea and the forest-clad mountains, colonial townhouses have been converted into delightful 'Pousadas', many with flower draped courtyards and gardens.  Here, or from one of the resorts along the coast such as Angra dos Reis, you can explore the Atlantic rainforest or simply relax amidst beautiful surroundings.  Another option is the short trip by ferry to the attractive Ilha Grande, an island relatively untouched by development which is surrounded by transparent green waters and offers beautiful beaches and some excellent walking trails.
SOUTHERN BRAZIL & THE IGUAZU FALLS
Wooded mountains and grassy plains cover the South, the only region in Brazil where temperate seasons are clearly defined.  The influence of European immigrants (mainly Germans and Italians) is felt throughout the area, particularly in centres such as Curitiba, a well-planned modern city which is an ideal base for exploring the coast and the surrounding mountains.  From the island of Florianolis, joined to the mainland by two bridges, whale-watching excursions can be organised.  The greatest attraction of this region is without doubt the overwhelming waterfalls of Iguazlocated where the borders of Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay converge.  Thundering waters, great clouds of spray and countless rainbows make the 75 metre-high falls one of the most spectacular sights on earth.  Set amidst a sub-tropical forest abounding in birds and butterflies, the falls can be visited on foot via a series of wooden walkways and viewing platforms and by boat trips for unforgettable close up views of the most dramatic section of all, the Garganta del Diablo or ‘Devil’s Throat’.
THE PANTANAL
The Pantanal is one of the world's greatest wildlife reserves, a unique expanse of wetland covering over 200,000 square km with a greater abundance of wildlife than anywhere else in Brazil  There are more than 600 species of birds to be seen, including the world’s greatest concentration of wading birds such as storks, egrets, ibis and roseate spoonbills, as well as deer, wild boar, howler monkeys, giant otters, anteaters, caimans and yellow anacondas. This is a remote and wild region of open grasslands and luxuriant forest and most lodges are reached by long overland journeys by road and boat from the gateway towns of Campo Grande and Cuiab
Austral Tours Ltd: 20 Upper Tachbrook Street London SW1V 1SH - United Kingdom Tel. +44(0)20-7233 5384 / Fax +44(0)20-7233 5385 Email:
info@latinamerica.co.uk
Austral Tours is pleased to support the work of The LATA Foundation which is a UK-based charity (Registered Charity Number 1123580) dedicated to promoting responsible business practices in the tourism industry as well as sustainable development, conservation and poverty relief in Latin America. For more information about The LATA Foundation please see www.latafoundation.org or to make a donation please see www.justgiving.com/lata