American Military University Makes  Top 20 List of Military-Friendly Colleges and Universities
Online University's Selection is the Second in as Many Years by Military Advanced Education
Charles Town, W.Va., December 5, 2008  Military Advanced Education (MAE) has selected (AMU) as one of Americas Top 20 Military-Friendly Colleges and Universities for 2008. AMU is a member institution of (APUS) an accredited online university system that educates more than 41,000 adult learners worldwide. APUS also includes (APU) and is one of the nations largest providers of higher education to the armed forces.   American Military University American Public University System American Public University
MAE chose its top 20 list based on each schools significance in military education, whether for number of military contracts, number of military students served, availability of financial aid and scholarship, or other military-friendly qualities.  AMU was founded in 1991 by a former Marine Corps officer and instructor and is one of the first online universities. It focuses on meeting the unique educational needs of the military  a very mobile population with extended, irregular schedules and limited financial resources.  
"We enjoy working with the military education community to help best meet the needs of service members, said Jim Sweizer, vice president of military programs for AMU. We are actively engaged in the Council of College and Military Educators and their state associations to ensure we are up-to-date on the military community's educational needs."
AMU continues to serve and attract military students with unique mission-related degree programs, affordable tuition, an undergraduate book grant, monthly class starts and a staff that understands the military community. Approximately 34,000 active duty, Guard, Reserve and veterans are enrolled in 73 undergraduate and graduate degree programs.
Military Advanced Education is the only publication that links soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines  and their families  with military-friendly colleges and universities. AMUs selection will be featured in the December issue of Military Advanced Education.
American Military University is a member institution of American Public University System, which also includes American Public University and educates more than 41,000 adult learners worldwide. AMUs relevant curriculum, affordability and flexibility allows working adults to pursue degrees that will help them advance in a variety of career fields, including business, information technology, education and management. AMU also provides specialized education in homeland security, national security and emergency and disaster management. A university book grant provides textbooks at no cost for eligible undergraduate students. American Public University System is a wholly-owned subsidiary of American Public Education, Inc. (NASDAQ:APEI). For more information, please visit .American Military University
http://www.americanpubliceducation.com/
# # #
  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |American Public University System (APUS)  is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the  and nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council
2008 American Public University System | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787