Welcome to AnnuitySpecs!
Have you ever struggled to find clear product specifications or features on an Indexed Annuity?
Have you ever wished that there was a single web site where you could find product information for the more than 320 Indexed Annuity products available today?
Have you been challenged to find ONE site that collectively reports on the participation rates, caps, and spreads for every Indexed Annuity available for sale today?
Have you ever wished there was a service that would create reports, and appropriately benchmark the Indexed Annuities on the market to reduce time spent on rate committee preparation?
Are you looking for a resource that can provide the most advanced search engine in the Indexed Annuity market, as well as side-by-side product comparisons?
If you answered "YES" to any or all of these questions, you’ve come to the right place!
Is AnnuitySpecs what you’re looking for?
AnnuitySpecs is a one-stop shop for all of your Indexed Annuity needs. We provide you with the product tools you need to understand Indexed Annuities inside-and-out. We keep you updated on all of the new products being introduced in the market, as well as those being retired. What’s more, we provide you with sales data so you can see how the market has grown, and educate you on the basics of Indexed Annuities. We even benchmark the products appropriately, so that you don’t have to.
This site is run by an independent third party market research analyst, not by an independent marketing organization. That means always current and up-to-date information on ALL carriers in the market, not just those that have contracts with the owner of this site. What’s more, we have no vested interest in the communication of the product features on this site; we believe in full and accurate disclosure. Just as important, we specialize in Indexed Annuity product research and understand the products inside-and-out. For this reason, you can rest assured that this site was tailored specifically for your use.
Membership
Become a "Member" today and receive all that AnnuitySpecs has to offer you! Review the page to see how AnnuitySpecs can help you be successful. Member Benefits
Members Sign-in