Jump to: , navigation search
The is a partnership among the riparian states that seeks to develop the river in a cooperative manner, share substantial socioeconomic benefits, and promote regional peace and security . The NBI began with a participatory process of dialogue among the riparian states that resulted in an agreement on a shared vision to achieve sustainable socioeconomic development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources." It was formally launched in February, 1999 by the water ministers of 9 countries that share the river - , , , , , , , , the , as well as . Eritrea, which shares only a very small portion of the Nile Basin and which led a in 1998-2000, is not participating actively in the Initiative. From its beginning the Nile Basin Initiative has been supported by the and by other external partners.Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) Nile [1] [1] Egypt Sudan Ethiopia Uganda Kenya Tanzania Burundi Rwanda Democratic Republic of Congo Eritrea war with Ethiopia World Bank
Contents
[] edit Institutional framework
The NBI institutional framework consists of three key institutions: [2]
The of Water Affairs provides policy guidance and makes decisions. Its Chairpersonship is on a rotational one-year basis. The Current chairperson is , Minister Of Water & Environment, Uganda.Nile Council of Ministers Maria Mutagamba
The , established in 1998. It is made up of senior civil servants and provides technical advice and assistance to the Council of Ministers. The Committee is made up of one representative from each riparian country and one alternate.NBI Technical Advisory Committee
The , established in 1999 provides administrative support to the Council of Ministers and the Technical Advisory Committee. It is based in Entebbe, Uganda, headed by an Executive Director. The position is on a rotational basis for a 2 year term. The current Executive Director, from Burundi, assumed office in June 2006NBI Secretariat Audace Ndayizeye
[] edit Main programs
The NBI consists of three main programs: The Shared Vision Program, the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program and the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program.
[] edit The Shared Vision Program
The Shared Vision Program (SVP), a Basin-wide program that focuses on building institutions, sharing data and information, providing training and creating avenues for dialogue and region-wide networks needed for joint problem-solving, collaborative development, and developing multi-sector and multi-country programs of investment to develop water resources in a sustainable way. It is financed through grants and aims to foster trust to build an enabling environment for investment. In early 2008 it included the following eight projects:
Applied Training Project
Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement Project
Regional Power Trade Project
Socio-economic and Benefits Sharing Project
Transboundary Environmental Action Project
Efficient Water Use for Agriculture Project
Water Resources Management Project
[] edit The Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program
The (ENSAP) "seeks to develop the water resources of the Basin in a sustainable and equitable way to ensure prosperity, security and peace for all its peoples". It is managed by the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. It is grouped into fast-track investments and more complex, longer-term multi-purpose track investments.Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program Eastern Nile
[] edit Fast-track investments
This track included four projects in early 2008: [3]
The Regional aims to establish sustainable on the , , , / and the // rivers in Ethiopia and Sudan. The initial project sites identified include / in Egypt; , , and sub-basins, as well as watershed management in - as part of the Tana-Beles Integrated Water Resources Development Project in Ethiopia; and the lower Atbara, Mountains and areas around in Sudan.Watershed Management Project management of watersheds Tekeze Atbara Mareb Abbay Blue Nile Baro Akobo Sobat Lake Nasser Nubia Jamma Reb Gumera Tana Beles Ingessena Dinder National Park
The (formerly called the Ethiopia-Sudan Internconnection Project) will connect the power grids of Ethiopia and Sudan to facilitate cross-border and optimize existing and planned generation capacity. It aims to overcome the severe electricity shortage in both countries. The World Bank is providing a US$ 41 million credit for investments in Ethiopia approved in 2007. The Government of Sudan is funding activities in Sudan.Ethiopia Power Export Project energy trade
The Regional aims to develop and expand irrigated agriculture and improve the productivity of existing agriculture through more efficient use of water. It consists of three national sub-projects:Irrigation and Drainage Project
Egypt West Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project supported by a US$ 145 million loan from the World Bank approved in 2007 Delta
Ethiopia Irrigation and Drainage Project, supported by a US$ 100 million World Bank subsidized credit approved in 2007, including for investments in the Reb and sites in the (Lake Tana basin). Megech Amhara Region
Sudan Upper Irrigation Project Atbara
The , a US$ 4 million project approved in 2007 with an expected duration of three years, will focus on building capabilities and flood emergency preparedness and response. This will include efforts to improve dissemination of information to communities at risk, strengthen existing institutions and mechanisms to alert communities; establish community-based plans to reduce flood damages and capture environmental benefits; deliver public education programs; and develop regional and local and response plans.Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project flood forecasting flood warning emergency preparedness
[] edit Multi-purpose track
The multi-purpose track includes a series of studies aimed at developing common analytical tools, as well as a tentative plan for coordinated investments called the Joint Multipurpose Program. [3]
[] edit Development of common analytical tools
Specific common analytical tools will be developed for the power sector, watershed management and irrigation/drainage, integrated by an overall planning model.
The is considered by the World Bank to be a critical building block for determining future regional watershed investments. The study will build a shared information base from which to assess impacts of different land management interventions on a regional scale. This assessment will include a transboundary analysis of the Eastern Nile watershed system and associated livelihoods and analyze how benefits accrue across the three countries under alternative watershed management interventions.Watershed Management Cooperative Regional Assessment
The is part of the overall effort to promote regional power trade by coordinating the planning and development of power projects and transmission interconnection across the three Eastern Nile countries. This study includes an assessment of the scope and potential of an Eastern Nile power market, potential power generation options in the three countries, potential sites for transmission interconnection, and potential power trading arrangements.Eastern Nile Power Trade Investment Project
The includes both regional studies of irrigation and development opportunities, as well as engineering studies of specific sites. The regional study seeks to develop guidelines for selection of projects of regional interest, quantify the benefits and costs of irrigation projects from national and regional perspectives, and explore institutional and legislative reform options to harmonize the approach to rural development and facilitate regional cooperation.Irrigation and Drainage Cooperative Regional Assessment
The Project is intended to help Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan identify, prepare, and implement cooperative development projects that benefit all three countries.Eastern Nile Planning Model
[] edit Joint Multipurpose Program
The Joint Multipurpose Program (JMP) is a long-term program with a 25-30 year horizon that includes a coordinated set of investments to ensure the sustainable development and management of shared Eastern Nile waters, including the Abbay (), (Setit)-, --, portions of the White Nile and the Main Nile. The first set of investments under the program is likely to include: Blue Nile Tekeze Atbara Baro Akobo Sobat [4]
, including , river bank , and creation of alternative livelihoods.Watershed and environmental management reforestation erosion control
through an infrastructure backbone including a regional power grid and increase capacity for water storage for , , and water conservation. Other potential benefits include improved , more productive and sufficient flows of water to maintain critical .Linking river and power systems flood control hydropower irrigation inland navigation fisheries ecosystems
through intensified and expanded irrigated agriculture, coupled with targeted investments in , marketing, and other agricultural support services. Improved watershed management would also help expand , improve productivity, and promote fisheries development.Enhancing agricultural production agribusiness rainwater harvesting livestock
, such as in telecommunications, transport, industry, tourism, and credit systems.Complementary investments to leverage growth and promote regional integration
, including innovative approaches to financing, shared information systems, and improved public communication and transparency.Establishing institutions for joint action
[] edit The Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program
The Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program (NELSAP) is an investment program under the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI). Its mission is to help reduce poverty, promote economic growth, and reverse environmental degradation. NELSAP programs fall under two broad program areas: Natural Resources Management and Development, and Power Development and Trade. [5]
[] edit Natural Resources Management and Development
This program area includes the following projects: [6]
The Transboundary Integrated Water Resources Management and Development project launched in December 2005. The project is shared between Burundi, Tanzania, Rwanda and Uganda. Kagera
The Mara Transboundary Integrated Water Resources Management and Development project in the and the national parks launched effective January 2006. It is shared between Tanzania and Kenya. Mara Serengeti
The Sio-Malaba-Malakisi Transboundary Integrated Water Resources Management and Development project shared by Kenya and Uganda focuses on promoting development and reducing conflicts between communities using water resources of the three sub basins fed from the slopes of . The project was launched in January 2006. Mount Elgon
The and Fisheries Pilot Project in Uganda and the DemocraticRepublic of Congo, including small-scale community-level investments to improve protection of water catchment areas, build access roads, and supply drinking water and sanitation. The project was launched in June 2005 and was scheduled to be completed in 2007. The African Development Bank is providing financial support for this project. Lake Edward Lake Albert
The Abatement of the on the Kagera River Project, part of the Environmental Management Project in partnership with Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. Water Hyacinth Lake Victoria
[] edit Power Development and Trade
This program area focuses on investment planning and preparation of major investment projects such as a Transmission Interconnection project and the Regional Hydro-electric and Multi-purpose Project. This has involved carrying out preliminary feasibility studies and assessments. Rusumo Falls
In December 2005 the six NELSAP Ministers responsible for Electricity Affairs adopted an Indicative Power Master Plan for the region. The plan includes a set of best evaluated power generation options and transmission interconnection projects for the next 20 years, including social and environmental concerns.
The Regional Hydroelectric and Multipurpose Project on the Kagera River is expected to be a with an associated that is expected to benefit Burundi, Rwanda and Tanzania. The project was identified as one of the best power options through the above-mentioned NELSAP Assessment of Power Development Options. The hydroelectric power component would have an installed capacity of approximately 60-80 megawatts. It is estimated that approximately 3,000 people would need to be resettled around the hydropower plant facility. Rusumo Falls dam run-of-the river hydropower plant [7] [8]
The NELSAP Transmission Interconnection feasibility studies include detailed design for four key transmission lines between Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda, supported directly by the . The total cost of the regional transmission lines are about US$160 Million. African Development Bank
[] edit Funding
The Nile Basin Initiative is supported by contributions from the NBI countries themselves and through the support of international financial institutions - such as the , the and the - and other donors. In 2003 a World Bank managed, multi-donor trust fund created to harmonize donor contributions. Donors that contributed through the Nile Basin Trust Fund until early 2008 include Canada, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Other donors to the NBI include Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the EU and various UN agencies such as and the . World Bank Global Environmental Facility African Development Bank UNDP FAO [9]
Until early 2008 donors have contributed over US$130 million of the original pledge of US$150 million. US$14.4 million has been contributed by the governments of the Nile Basin. [10]