| Home
History
The New York Flute Club was not the first American flute club—it was preceded by several others. But it is the oldest continuously operating flute club in the world. The idea took shape in 1920, when a group of seventeen flutists met at the home of Georges Barrère to play the Kuhlau Grand Quartet. Barrère was then the principal flutist of the New York Symphony Orchestra and flute professor at the Institute of Musical Art (predecessor of The Juilliard School). The club was officially incorporated by the state of New York on December 31, 1920, and held its first meeting five days later. Its first officers included William Kincaid (then the flutist of the New York Chamber Music Society and later the esteemed principal flutist of the Philadelphia Orchestra) and the flutist-composer Lamar Stringfield.
The Club's activities in the first decade were regularly covered by The Flutist magazine, published by Emil Medicus. Although Barrère's past and current students—including Meredith Willson, Arthur Lora, Quinto Maganini, and Lamar Stringfield—were frequently among the early performers, there were prominent guest artists from early on, including Georges Laurent, principal flutist of the Boston Symphony. In the early years there were also annual dinner-dances at fancy hotels.
Many Club programs included flute ensemble music and the work of contemporary composers. The programs in the 1930s and '40s presented John Amans, principal flutist of the New York Philharmonic from 1923 to 1942, and John Wummer, principal flutist of the NBC Symphony and later the Philharmonic. Other frequent performers included. Carmine Coppola, principal flutist of NBC; Arthur Lora, principal flutist of the Metropolitan Opera and NBC; Harry Moskovitz; and Frederick Wilkins.
In the 1960s and '70s, the Club presented a wide array of American flutists, including Philip Kaplan and Lois Schaefer from Boston, as well as Eleanor Lawrence, John Wion, Paige Brook, Samuel Baron, Karl Kraber, and Paul Dunkel. It also inaugurated a competition for young artists, formalizing its support for emerging talents. It made its first commercial recording, , to commemorate the American bicentennial, and in 1980 mounted its first museum exhibition, From Hotteterre to Barrère. The Flute In American Music
The Club has always presented special programs with such notable speakers as flute collector and acoustician Dayton C. Miller and flutemaker Verne Q. Powell, as well as masterclasses with out-of-town performers. In 1994 this concept was expanded into a flute fair, which also incorporated the annual young artist competition.
In the meantime, the Club continued to present leading flutists in formal concerts. Some of the artist performers who have appeared at these concerts are Robert Aitken, Julius Baker, Samuel Baron, Jeanne Baxtresser, William Bennett, Frances Blaisdell, Bonita Boyd, Paige Brook, Leone Buyse, Linda Chesis, Sandra Church, Michel Debost, Bernard Goldberg, James Hosmer, Timothy Hutchins, Harold Jones, Sue Ann Kahn, Toshiko Kohno, Karl Kraber, Eleanor Lawrence, Gerardo Levy, Ervin Monroe, Louis Moyse, Per Oien, Donald Peck, Paula Robison, Joshua Smith, John Solum, Mark Sparks, Robert Willoughby, Ransom Wilson, Carol Wincenc, and John Wion.
From the very beginning, the Club's programs have drawn attention to the works of flutist-composers: Lamar Stringfield, Quinto Maganini, Walter Benedict, Harvey Sollberger, Katherine Hoover, Elizabeth Brown, and Gary Schocker, to name just a few. In recent years its programs have broadened to include jazz and flute music of non-Western traditions, including shakuhachi, bansuri, a wide variety of Chinese flutes, and music from diverse Latin American traditions.
The NYFC has made an increased effort in recent years to involve a broad range of flutists, especially elementary and secondary students. The flute fair has been an especially useful venue for these activities, though the Club also runs a year-round ensemble program for members and a community outreach program, begun in the mid-1990s, that involves young music students around the city.
The Club has always been conscious of its history, and over the years has presented numerous programs to honor the memory of distinguished members of the flute community, including Theobald Boehm, Georges Barrère, Marcel Moyse, Harold Bennett, Samuel Baron, Paige Brook, and Jean-Pierre Rampal.
 
Notable dates in the Club's history
December 5, 1920
The Club holds its first organizational meeting
December 31, 1920
The Club is incorporated by New York State; first meeting
January 5, 1921
First regular meeting of the Club
1922
The Club publishes Robert Russell Bennett's Rondo Capriccioso for four flutes
February 26, 1928
Flute collector and acoustician Dayton C. Miller is guest of honor, giving a talk "On the Gentle Art of Flute Playing"; the rest of the program is composed and played by Quinto Maganini, with John Kirkpatrick at the piano
December 18, 1938
Recital of new music for flute and piano by Georges Barrere; includes Gaubert's Sonatine, Marion Bauer's Five Greek Lyrics, Richard Franko Goldman's Divertimento, and the New York premiere of Eugene Goossens' Three Pictures
March 31, 1940
First known Flute Club recital by John Wummer
April 29, 1945
Milton Wittgenstein and Harry Moskovitz give a program of first performances of chamber music written originally for various combinations of two flutes, guitar, violin, viola, and cello
December 21, 1947
Carleton Sprague Smith, flutist and musicologist, comments on historical recordings of John Lemmone, Arthur Brooke, Emil Prill, John Amadio, Barrere, Moyse, and others
1948
Eldin Burton wins the Club's first (and only) composition competition for his Sonatina for flute and piano (published by ) Carl Fischer
January 29, 1950
The Club sponsors the first appearance in the United States of the Moyse Trio (Marcel Moyse, flute; Blanche Honegger-Moyse, violin, and Louis Moyse, piano and flute)
December 18, 1966
Harvey and Sophie Sollberger, flutes, assisted by Otto Luening, flute and Charles Wuorinen, piano, give a program of contemporary compositions by Luciano Berio, Chou Wen-chung, Charles Wuorinen, Luening, Kazuo Fukushima, Mario Davidovsky, and Sollberger
1976
The Club publishes a record, , to commemorate the American bicentennial The Flute in American Music
February 20, 1977
Laurence Trott presents the Club's first piccolo recital
December 13, 1981
Theobald Boehm Memorial Concert, in honor of the 100th anniversary of his death, with Samuel Baron, Paige Brook, James Hosmer, Karl Kraber, Eleanor Lawrence, and Gary Schocker
December 14, 1986
Concert to Remember and Honor Harold Bennett
October 22, 1989
A concert to celebrate the memory of Marcel Moyse on the 100th anniversary of his birth
March 19, 1994
First New York Flute Fair held, with Jean-Pierre Rampal as guest artist
March 21, 1998
The Fourth New York Flute Fair honors Julius Baker
March 11, 2001
The Seventh New York Flute Fair honors the memory of Jean-Pierre Rampal, with appearances by biographer Denis Verroust, Michel Debost, Karl Kraber, and Eugenia Zukerman
Archives
The Club's archives are permanently conserved in the Special Collections of the Music Division, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, at Lincoln Center. The call number of the collection is JPB 90-28, and anyone may consult it subject to the normal regulations of the library. The archives include:
A comprehensive run of concert programs
Although this archive is extensive, we have some gaps in the collection, particularly in the 1930s and 1950s. Anyone possessing copies of NYFC programs or knowing of copies in other archives is asked to contact the archivist.NOTE:
Club publications
Newsletters, press releases, clippings, and other publicity materials
Membership brochures and rosters
Records of the board of directors
Rare music played at Club concerts
Photographs, art, and other memorabilia
Information on exhibitions sponsored by the Club