Port of New London, Connecticut
 
Rich and I are sitting on the top deck of the Cape Henlopen, enjoying an hour and half ferry ride to Orient Point, NY. Our choice of destinations was random.
A few summers ago we took the ferry to Block Island, NY and loved walking through the shops there. This time we thought we would try Orient Point, NY.
We arrived at the docks in plenty of time to check the ferry schedules, buy our tickets and enjoy the view before it was time to board. Cross Sound Ferry
While still in dock, we saw several other ferries coming and going.
This was the first time we saw the high speed ferry in port. Rich and I assumed that people were coming and going from spending their afternoon at the and
Mohegan Sun Casino Foxwood's Casino.
We were also interested to learn that the City of New London had combined the Greyhound Bus Station, the Amtrak Train Station and the port all within walking distance to each other.
The buses were lined up to take travelers to the casino and I am sure other destinations. It was, I must admit, pretty cool, to see everything there, all together.
As we got underway, we passed , Park and on the left. We didn't see any submarines, but want to acknowledge that our leisure now, is due to the 37 years Rich spent working there. Fort Griswold State Park Fort Trumbull State Electric Boat
Next we passed the Hess Oil Terminal the Pfizer Pharmaceuticals. On the right were we were treated to and. Ocean Beach Park Harkness Park
A number of lighthouses are visible. The and the are both beautiful. The sound was also very busy with sail boats and speed boats, as well as jets skis. New London Harbor Light New London Ledge Light
As we approach Orient Point, NY, we were not sure what to expect, but hope to find some restaurants and small shops to visit, until we take the ferry back.
What we discovered was quite different. The Cross Sound Ferry had a small beach there, with a handful of bathers, but the beach was completely covered in pebbles and very difficut to walk on.
There was the ferry office and one other building, owned by the CSF. It was a small offering snacks, soda and ice cream. Unfortunately not what we had been hoping for. take out restaurant
After checking with a resident there, we learned that the closest town was approximately 5 miles away. We decided to reboard immediately.
Thankfully the Cape Henlopen was a spacious, clean and comfortable boat. The restrooms were very clean and the boat offered it's own snack restaurant and bar.
Our advice is if you want a peaceful few hours on the water, head to Orient Point. If you are looking for bike or motor scooter rentals, shops to browse in and restaurants to enjoy, make sure you get on the ferry to Block Island.
 