(may also be viewed as belonging to the .) wrist forearm
[] edit Muscles and tendons
The movements of the human hand are accomplished by two sets of each of these tissues. They can be subdivided into two groups: the extrinsic and intrinsic muscle groups. The extrinsic muscle groups are the long flexors and extensors. They are called extrinsic because the muscle belly is located on the forearm.
The intrinsic muscle groups are the and muscles (thenar referring to the thumb, hypothenar to the small finger), the (between the metacarpal bones, and ) and the . These muscles arise from the (and are special because they have no bony origin) and insert on the dorsal extensor hood mechanism. thenar hypothenar interosseus muscles four dorsally three volarly lumbrical muscles deep flexor
The fingers have two long flexors, located on the underside of the forearm. They insert by tendons to the phalanges of the fingers. The deep flexor attaches to the distal phalanx, and the superficial flexor attaches to the middle phalanx. The flexors allow for the actual bending of the fingers. The thumb has one long flexor and a short flexor in the thenar muscle group. The human thumb also has other muscles in the thenar group (opponens- and ), moving the thumb in opposition, making grasping possible. abductor muscle
The extensors are located on the back of the forearm and are connected in a more complex way than the flexors to the dorsum of the fingers. The tendons unite with the interosseous and lumbrical muscles to form the extensorhood mechanism. The primary function of the extensors is to straighten out the digits. The thumb has two extensors in the forearm; the tendons of these form the . Also, the index finger and the little finger have an extra extensor, used for instance for pointing. The extensors are situated within 6 separate compartments. The 1st compartment contains abductor pollicis longus and extensor pollicis brevis. The 2nd compartment contains extensors carpi radialis longus and brevis. The 3rd compartment contains extensor pollicis longus. The extensor digitorum indicis and extensor digititorum communis are within the 4th compartment. Extensor digiti minimi is in the fifth, and extensor carpi ulnaris is in the 6th. anatomical snuff box
[] edit Variation
Some people have more than the usual number of fingers or toes, a condition called . Others may have more than the typical number of metacarpal bones, a condition often caused by genetic disorders like . The average length of an adult male hand is 189 mm, while the average length of an adult female hand is 172 mm. The average hand breadth for adult males and females is 84 and 74 mm respectively. polydactyly [5] Catel-Manzke syndrome [6]