An asterisk (*) next to an item in the summary indicates that the interaction is supported only by weak, fragmentary, and/or contradictory scientific evidence.
Interactions with Supplements
Calcium
Thyroid hormones have been reported to increase urinary loss of calcium. However, recent research suggests that, under most circumstances, taking thyroid hormones may not be associated with reduced bone density. Calcium supplementation for people taking long-term thyroid medication has not yet been proven to be either helpful or necessary. 1 , 2 3
Simultaneous ingestion of some calcium formulations with levothyroxine has been reported to reduce the effectiveness of levothyroxine. For example, 1,200 mg per day of calcium as calcium carbonate, taken along with levothyroxine, significantly reduced absorption of the thyroid hormone. Levothyroxine activity will not be blocked if it is taken in the morning and calcium carbonate is taken after lunch and dinner. Separating these medications by at least four hours is recommended. 4 5
Iron
Iron deficiency has been reported to impair the body's ability to make its own thyroid hormones, which could increase the need for thyroid medication. In a preliminary trial, iron supplementation given to iron-deficient women with low blood levels of thyroid hormones, partially normalized these levels. Diagnosing iron deficiency requires the help of a doctor. The body's ability to make its own thyroid hormones is also reduced during low-calorie dieting. Iron supplementation (27 mg per day) was reported in a controlled study to help maintain normal thyroid hormone levels in obese patients despite a very low-calorie diet. 6 7 8
However, iron supplements may decrease absorption of thyroid hormone medications. People taking thyroid hormone medications should talk with their doctor before taking iron-containing products., 9 10
Soy
Ingestion of soy products simultaneously with thyroid hormones appears to reduce the absorption of the hormones. To be safe, people taking thyroid medication should not consume soy products within three hours of taking their medication. In addition, infants with congenital hypothyroidism given thyroid medication must not be given increased or reduced amounts of soy-based formula without consulting a pediatrician or pediatric endocrinologist. 11
Betaine hydrocholoride
The normal stomach produces hydrochloric acid, which influences the absorption of thyroid hormones. Research has shown that taking drugs that inhibit the production of stomach acid reduces the absorption of thyroid hormones. Conversely, people with low stomach acid who take betaine hydrochloride for "acid-replacement therapy" would be expected to have an increase in their absorption of thyroid hormones. For that reason, people taking thyroid hormones should not take betaine hydrochloride without the supervision of a doctor, who can determine whether a change in thyroid hormone dose is necessary. 12
Interactions with Herbs
and may interfere with the action of thyroid hormones and should not be used during treatment with thyroid hormones. Bugleweed (Lycopus virginicus, Lycopus europaeus) lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) 13
Other Interactions
Food
Taking levothyroxine with food may decrease its absorption. Levothyroxine absorption is increased when taken on an empty stomach. High-fiber diets have been shown to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Thyroid hormones should be taken an hour before eating, at the same time very day. 14 15 16 17
References
Kung AWC, Pun KK. Bone mineral density in premenopausal women receiving long-term physiological doses of levothyroxine. 1991;265:2688-91. JAMA
Schneider DL, Barrett-Connor EL, Morton DJ. Thyroid hormone use and bone mineral density in elderly men. 1995;155:2005-7. Arch Intern Med
Franklyn JA, Betteridge J, Daykin J, et al. Long-term thyroxine treatment and bone mineral density. 1992;340:9-13. Lancet
Schneyer CR. Calcium carbonate and reduction of levothyroxine efficacy. 1998;279:750. JAMA
Singh N, Singh PN, Hershman JM. Effect of calcium carbonate on the absorption of levothyroxine. 2000;283:2822-5. JAMA
Beard JL, Borel MJ, Derr J. Impaired thermoregulation and thyroid function in iron-deficiency anemia. 1990;52:813-9. Am J Clin Nutr
Beard JL, Borel MJ, Derr J. Impaired thermoregulation and thyroid function in iron deficiency anemia. 1990;52:813-9. Am J Clin Nutr
Beard J, Borel M, Peterson FJ. Changes in iron status during weight loss with very-low-energy diets. 1997;66:104-10. Am J Clin Nutr
Campbell NR, Hasinoff BB. Iron supplements: A common cause of drug interactions. 1991;31:251-5. Brit J Clin Pharmacol
Campbell NR, Hasinoff BB, Stalts H, et al. Ferrous sulfate reduces thyroxine efficacy in patients with hypothyroidism. 1992;117:1010-3. Ann Intern Med
Jabbar MA, Larrea J, Shaw RA. Abnormal thyroid function tests in infants with congenital hypothyroidism: The influence of soy-based formulas. 1997;16:280-2. J Am Coll Nutr
Centanni M, Gargano L, Canettieri G, et al. Thyroxine in goiter, infection, and chronic gastritis. 2006;354:1787-95. Helicobacter pyloriN Engl J Med
Brinker F. Sandy, OR: Eclectic Institute, 1997, 21, 29-30. Herb Contraindications and Drug Interactions.
Benvenga S, Bartolone L, Squadrito S, et al. Delayed intestinal absorption of levothyroxine. 1995;5:249-53. Thyroid
Threlkeld DS, ed. Hormones, Thyroid Hormones. In St. Louis, MO: Facts and Comparisons, Jun 1991, 132-3c. Facts and Comparisons Drug Information.
Liel Y, Harman-Boehm I, Shany S. Evidence for a clinically important adverse effect of fiber-enriched diet on the bioavailability of levothyroxine in adult hypothyroid patients. 1996;81:857-9. J Clin Endocrinol Metab
Threlkeld DS, ed. Hormones, Thyroid Hormones. In St. Louis, MO: Facts and Comparisons, Jun 1991, 132-3c. Facts and Comparisons Drug Information.
09-01-2007Last Review:
Copyright © 2008 Healthnotes, Inc.  All rights reserved.  www.healthnotes.com
Please read the about the limitations of the information provided here. Do NOT rely solely on the information in this article. disclaimer
Learn more about the authors of Using Medicines with Vitamins and Herbs
The information presented in Healthnotes is for informational purposes only. It is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or ), clinical experience, or traditional usage as cited in each article. The results reported may not necessarily occur in all individuals. For many of the conditions discussed, treatment with prescription or over the counter medication is also available. Consult your doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any supplements or before making any changes in prescribed medications. Information expires February 2009.in vitro
 
Go to top of page
 
This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the . to help you make better health decisions. Terms of Use How this information was developed
Topic Contents