  Special Requests?   Click Here
EXPERIENCE
At Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas guests can enjoy the luxurious lakeside spa and fitness center, 36 holes of championship golf designed by Nicklaus and Weiskopf, scenic outdoor recreation and water sports, stargazing and year-round family activities, along with gourmet American cuisine at Medici Caf& Terrace, one of America's favorite restaurants. The Mediterranean-style lakeside resort nestled in the midst of the Southern Nevada desert offers 349 luxurious rooms and suites. Each guestroom offers panoramic views of breathtaking high-desert mountains or the tranquil beauty of Lake Las Vegas, elegant bed linens, oversized marble bathrooms, separate tub and shower and, in select rooms, romantic balconies. Medici Caf& Terrace provides a casual experience in a warm, relaxed room with a view. The inviting environment welcomes guests inside or outdoor alfresco dining in a romantic setting adjacent to the resort's Florentine gardens. A lively display kitchen exhibits Medici's signature cuisine, with its freshest of ingredients and flavorful American influence. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas Spa is a warm, relaxed retreat just minutes from the Las Vegas Strip. Close to it all but away from it all, The Ritz-Carlton Spa provides the ultimate in caring, nurturing, unhurried and personalized service, enhanced by the finest in therapies, spa products, luxury spa resort facilities, unique recreational programs, and the exclusive Prada Beauty spa experience.
RECOGNITION
The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas is part of and AAA Five Diamond Mobil Four Star Travel + Leisure - 500 Greatest Hotels in the World - 2006 Ritz-Carlton Hotels and Resorts (The) Virtuoso
LOCATION
The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas is located in the city of Henderson, the fastest-growing large city in the United States. Henderson is in Clark County, Nevada, five miles southeast of Las Vegas.
View Map
CONTACT
The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas 1610 Lake Las Vegas Pkwy. Las Vegas, Nevada, 89011 United States E-MAIL: BOOKING: