Chefs from the Pampered Chef to the Iron Chefs
View this page for all our Pampered Chef Recipes and Books: Featured Pampered Chef Recipes
 
Chef Alain Giraud - Restaurant: Citrus, Los Angeles, California. Raised in a traditional French family restaurant business. After growing up learning how fine food should taste, he studied at Nicric;mes Culinary School and received his degree in culinary arts. His early professional restaurant experience began at the Nicric;mes school and led to a three-year stint at l'Ermitage Meissonnier restaurant in Avignon. He then moved to Paris where he worked for two years at the Michelin two-star Hôtel de Crillon, before spending two more years at Le Grand Vefour. In 1986 Giraud won first prize as a young chef in the culinaire Minervois. He then worked for a number of restaurants in France, Hôtel Imperator in N&icric;mes, restaurant Le Reverbere in Narbonne and Restaurant Leonce in Florensac.
Recipes from Chef Giraud:   Apple Risotto
 
Chef Bobby Flay - Restaurant: Meza Grill, New York City, NY. At the young age of 35, chef and restaurateur Bobby Flay has accomplished more than most people twice his age. The flaming red-haired boy from Manhattan knew at a tender age that he had a knack for making food taste vibrant and wasted no time delving into a culinary career which has led him to a highly respected position in the American food world. Flay fell into cooking at the age of 17 when he took a job at Joe Allen's restaurant where his father was a partner. Mr. Allen was so impressed with Flay's natural ability that he paid his tuition to The French Culinary Institute. He later received the first "Outstanding Graduate Award" in 1993 and now acts as a spokesperson and Master Chef for the school.
Recipes from Chef Flare:        Oven Roasted Shrimp with Toasted Garlic & Red Chile Oil Upside Down Mango Tart
 
Chef Daniel Boulud - Restaurant: Cafe Boulud, New York City, NY. Daniel Boulud was born in France and was raised on his family's farm near Lyon, where he grew up surrounded by the rhythms of the seasons, the wonders of produce fresh from the fields, and of course, his grandmother's inspiring home cooking. After being nominated as a candidate for best cooking apprentice in France, Daniel went on to train under some of the country's most renowned chefs such as Roger Vergé, Georges Blanc and Michel Guérard. Following two years as chef in some of Copenhagen's finest kitchens, Daniel made his way to the United States where his first position was as Chef to the European Commission in Washington, DC.
Recipes from Chef Boulud:   Short Ribs Braised in Red Wine with Celery Duo
 
Chef Thomas Kovacs -Restaurant: Pike Street Cafe — Sheraton Seattle, Washington. Thomas Kovacs was born in Zrenjanin, Yugoslavia, and attended grammar and high school in Budapest, Hungary. He speaks Hungarian, German, Spanish, Russian, English and a little Japanese for good measure. In the course of his career, he's used them all. Kovacs trained in Budapest and worked at the city's Royal Hotel, Gellert Hotel and Mirelitte Frozen Food Company, and at Germany's Hotel Eden/Karlshure, Hotel Lindenhoff/Wielburg, Hotel Atlantic/Hamburg, Munchener Hotel/ Frankfurt and Piroska Restaurant/Stuttgart. He took both first and second prizes at Budapest culinary competitions, and won second prize at Frankfurt's culinary competition.
Recipes from Chef Kovacs:             Croustillant of Dungeness Crab Salmon with Smoked Wild Mushrooms
 
Chef Susan Spicer - Restaurant: Bayona, New Orleans, La. "I use an eclectic mixture of ingredients and styles, but it all makes sense. My taste is the filter. And I have a good grasp of what's agreeable to my customers," says Susan Spicer, chef-proprietor of Bayona, discussing her menu that ranges from "Boudin Noir with Apples and Onions" to "Crawfish Curry with Lime Pickle." Spicer served a three-year apprenticeship in New Orleans at the Louis XVI restaurant and, in the summer of 1982, apprenticed under Chef Roland Durand at Hotel Sofitel in Paris. "That was a turning point in my career. It gave me a real solid sense of where I was and a chance to compare myself to other professionals."
Recipes from Chef Spicer:   Beef Tenderloin Stuffed with Herb Cream Cheese, with Sauce Bordelaise
 
Chef Patrick Clark - When the Clintons were looking for a new chef for the White House, they set their sights on Patrick Clark, chef at the historic Hay Adams Hotel across Lafayette Square. Clark declined the White House job, explaining, among other reasons, that a government salary was inadequate to take care of his large family: a wife and five children. The chief executive's choice for top chef was not the only honor conferred on Clark. Among other distinctions, he won the James Beard Foundation award for "Best Chef, Mid-Atlantic Region." But what most distinguished Patrick Clark was his bright personality and warm affection, personal qualities that built such strong bonds with his customers that when he died, while waiting for a heart transplant, in February 1998.
Recipes from Chef Clark:   Pan-Roasted Filet of Beef with Potato and Blue Cheese Ravioli
 
Chef Frederic Monti - Restaurant: Brasserie Le Coze, Atlanta, Georgia. "Brasserie Le Coze is absolutely perfect!" exclaimed Atlanta's insider guide Knife and Fork. Absolutely perfect is also the way to describe Frederic Monti's pastries that have helped earned the restaurant such grand accolades. Monti's exquisite pastries and desserts are the results of long years of study at the Pastry School in Avignon, France and training at the famous Lenotre Restaurant and Bakery in Paris. As sous chef at Bechart Touget Bakery in Aix-en-Provence, Monti refined his skills and studied his craft — always seeking the perfection, taste and innovation that would ultimately win him such praise.
Recipes from Chef Monti:   Praline Mousse with Chocolate Meringue
 
Chef Bradley Ogden - Restaurant: One Market/Lark Creek Inn/Lark Creek Cafe. San Francisco, California. Chef Bradley Ogden is one of the New American cuisine's trailblazers, and has received the following awards and recognition: He has been included in Cook's Magazine's Who's Who of American Cooking, designated one of the Great American Cooks by the International Wine and Food Society and as Best Chef by the prestigious James Beard Foundation, and honored with the Golden Plate Award by the American Academy of Achievement. Bradley Ogden was first featured on Great Chefs in the Great Chefs of San Francisco series shortly after he opened the elegant peach-toned dining room of San Francisco's Campton Place Hotel in 1984.
Oak-Fired Butterflied Leg of Lamb Salad with Griddled Corn Cakes and Chipotle BBQ Glaze
 
Chef Marc Janodet - Restaurant: La Terrasse, Hotel Juana, Juan-des-Pins, France. Some of the most famous names in France's constellation of stellar chefs and restaurants appear in Marc Janodet's background: Jacques Maximin, Roger Verge, Christian Morisset. Janodet, who heads the pastry kitchen at the Hotel Juana where Christian Morisset is chef, began as an apprentice of Chef Westermayer in St. Amour for three years, then went to work for Chef Penaud at Morbier. After his national service, he became commis patissier at the Sofitel Aquitania, then moved to the Sofitel Porticcio. In 1976 he went to work for three years at the famed Hotel Negresco as pastry chef; Jacques Maximin was the Negresco's chef.