Yahoo Shopping
We at Home4School Gear are as well...that is, interested! This translates into our commitment to not only trying to save you money, but also helping you get what you need! We only carry the highest quality lapidary equipment, premium rough rock, and custom-made jewelry.    Whether you are a novice, hobbyist or professional, we know that things in the world of lapidary can be be expensive, as well as confusing. Why? Because With that in mind, we have made it a priority to help you make informed decisions. So, email or call us before you buy...and please note that we would rather you get what you need, even if it is from someone else.     This summer we have an and would love to see you out on the road. If you would like us to bring something to the shows, contact us at least two weeks before and we will bring it to the show (limitations apply). By doing this, you will save money on shipping, as well as be assured that you will be able to purchase what you want. If the items meet with your approval, you may make payment at the show. And please note that you are under no obligation to purchase anything you pre-order.    Finally, periodically we send out a special that introduces new products, announce specials and news items of interest (show locations, etc.). Only those that subscribe will be receiving this valuable "insiders" information. . And please note that I promise no more than 2-4 emails a month and will not share or sell your information.
If you are having trouble finding what you want, use our efficient "" function above. If you still can't find it, use the "" button above that. We promise to answer your questions!Search our SiteEmail Us!
Home4School Gear is proud to announce that We know that your family will profit from these wholesome titles that span age ranges from 10 - adult. This is truly reading like it should be...captivating, while being spiritually edifying. An additional note of interest is that the publisher is a homeschool graduate! To help you make your selections with confidence, we have included a sample chapter of each book for you to download!we now carry all 18 outstanding books from Salem Ridge Press! So, check out the excellent titles from Salem Ridge Press today!
Interested in lapidary pursuits?really
gem & lapidary newsletter To sign up for this opt-in only newsletter, click here
We now carry all 27 outstanding books from !    Flying Point focuses on . They believe that books for young readers should be full of action and adventure, with real-life characters that are bold, active, and heroic. I can tell you that these books are truly "unforgettable stories of personal courage and great events in history."    Currently, the Flying Point books can be categorized around the following eras and themes: Ancient and Medieval History, Colonial and Revolutionary America, The American West, America's First Century, Adventurers and Explorers, and World War II.    So, if you are planning a unit study on history for your ten to fifteen year old, these categories and books are perfect! If you are reading aloud to your children, then these books are appropriate for the younger children as well.    Also, Candidly, because of my appreciation for the Landmark series, this is what originally attracted me to Flying Point. And now with pleasure, I am able to endorse the rest of the 17 books as well!    Finally (if the above were not enough), the books are also aesthetically pleasing and readable, sturdy, as well as affordably priced... For your wholesome literature needs, you will find it difficult to beat this quality and price package. Flying Point Press
narrative nonfiction and historic fiction for readers ages ten to fifteen
10 of the 27 Flying Point Press books are from the mostly out-of-print and highly regarded Landmark series.
only $6.49 each at H4SG!
When will I get my order?We are shipping most orders within three business days. If an item is out of stock, it usually says so on that item page. If we run out and there will be a delay of more than 5 business days, we will let you know right away.