Broadcasting Training Overview Radio DJ Training Talk/News Training Sportscasting Training 3 Month Broadcasting School 6 Month Broadcasting School Tuition/Enrollment
Youl discover BMG mentor-apprentice model for training promotes relationship building and hands-on learning, regardless of which you choose. Youl discover that experienced broadcasters are best suited to train and escort you into this highly competitive business by serving as your personal guide, or mentor.
Broadcasters Mentoring Group (BMG)
"Real Broadcasters Teaching Aspiring Broadcasters"
The partners with professional working broadcasters throughout the U.S. and Canada with a simple (but not easy) mission: starting today.Broadcasters Mentoring Group (BMG)To equip aspiring broadcasters to skillfully broadcast
Based out of Calabasas, California, BMG is currently one of the few mentor apprenticeship programs available throughout the United States and Canada.
Whether your passion is to become a music DJ, talk show host, sportscaster, or newscaster, BMG has a training program for you.
Founded by former broadcaster Michael Madden, BMG was established to provide the that traditional brick and mortar broadcasting schools aren structured to provideissing link to success'insider access to professional broadcasters, and regular involvement with the real broadcasting industry.
Whether youe a college student who has worked in your college radio station, or way beyond your college years, think of BMG as an advanced graduate broadcasting school that serves as your bridge into the real world of radio broadcasting.
That bridge also leads you to real contacts, real job opportunities, and , since youe immediately able to establish your own network of industry references.real advantages
BMG is an unorthodox, yet comprehensive and multi-facetedbroadcasting school that operates both in local radio stations, as well as with announcers from professional sports teams throughout the U.S. and Canada.
Wee unorthodox in that most broadcasting schools are traditionally held in brick and mortar buildings - offer set class times and consist of a full time faculty...all being apart from where real radio is conducted, and where the jobs are.
BMG structure is very different from traditional broadcasting schools.
BMG broadcast training is so effective, because...
Youe inside real radio stations - in the same community where you live and work
Your instructors are professional broadcasters who are actually working in the field theye training you to enter
Flexible training days and times that you set
You're already positioned inside the station - with contacts - when jobs become available
Broadcast Training Program
Regardless of your age, budget, or educational background, if you truly want to begin a career in a radio or TV broadcasting, youl now have that opportunity. Some programs offered are designed to lead you to your broadcasting destination quicker than others. However, all of the programs offered are designed to properly equip and prepare you to become a broadcaster.
BMG Works for You, the Client
Lot's of company's can talk a good game and say all the things you want to hear. At BMG, you are the reason our business even exists...and we don't forget that. Just as your training will be personalized and one-on-one, so will every care, concern, or complaint be treated that you may have at any time during or after your training. You're a broadcasting student today, but a client for life.
Copyright 2008 broadcastingcareer.com | | | | | | | | | | |