: Facts About Mother's Day Mothers Day 2009
MOTHER'S DAY TRIVIA AND TRADITIONS
Mothers' Day is celebrated in almost all the parts of the world. And in every part there is some or other interesting tradition related to this special occasion. This special day devoted to the mothers in the entire world has trivia as well in its account. We are sharing the same with you on this Mothers' Day here in the following words.
Feasts celebrating mothers have existed throughout the world since the beginning of time. The modern version of Mother's Day in the United States was first observed in 1907.
Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia decided that it would be a wonderful way to honor her deceased mother. Two years later, Jarvis and friends began a letter-writing campaign to create a Mother's Day observance.
Soon after, in 1914, the US Congress passed legislation designating the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day.
It is a tradition that family names often begin with a sign that means . It is a nice way of honoring their moms long past.in China"mother"
The ancient Greeks celebrated Mother's Day in spring just like we do.
Greeks used to honor Rhea, "mother" of the godswith honey-cakes and fine drinks and flowers at dawn.
Mother Shipton was a Prophetess in Britain 500 years ago. She could see the future, and predicted that another Queen Elizabeth would sit on the throne of England. (QE II)
Rosa Parks was the mother of bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama that launched the Civil Rights Movement.
Japan's Imperial family traces its descent from Omikami Amaterasu, the Mother of the World.
Mother's Day is now celebrated in many countries around the world. Australia, Mexico, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Turkey, Belgium, Russia, China, Thailand, all have special celebrations to honor Mothers, but not in the same way or on the same day as the United States.
Julia Ward Howe wrote the Battle Hymn of the Republic and was a staunch fighter for women's rights. She staged an unusual protest for peace in Boston, by celebrating a special day for mothers. Julia wanted to call attention to the need for peace by pointing out mothers who were left alone in the world without their sons and husbands after the bloody Franco-Prussian War.
Hindu scripture credits the Great Mother, Kali Ma, with the invention of writing through alphabets, pictographs and beautiful sacred images.
Mother Goose is one of the most popular of all children's entertainers. Her books and stories have been loved for many generations.
Native American Indian women have long been honored with the name, "Life of the Nation" for their gift of motherhood to the tribes.
Ancient Egyptians believed that "Bastwas the mother of all cats on Earth, and that cats were sacred animals.
Buddha honored mothers when he said, "As a mother, even at the risk of her own life, loves and protects her child, so let a man cultivate love without measure toward the whole world.
In the Bible, Eve is credited with being the "Mother of All the Living.
During the 1600's, England celebrated a day called "Mothering Sunday.Servants would go home to see their families, bringing cakes and sweets to their moms. This custom was called "going a-mothering". Each mother would receive a simnel-cake (Latin for "fine flour") and mothers would give a blessing to their children.
Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia began the campaign that brought about the official observance of Mother's Day in the United States. Her mother died, and Anna wanted all mothers to be remembered. She asked that white carnations be the official mother's day symbol. In 1914, President Woodrow Wilson signed the orders that made Mother's Day a national holiday.
Just nine years later, Anna filed a lawsuit in an effort to stop the over- commercialization of Mother's Day. She lost her fight. Now, cards, letters, candy and dinners out mark Mother's Day for most families. Anna had hoped for a day of reflection and quiet prayer by families, thanking God for all that mothers had done.
Mother Earth is also known as "Terra Firma". That title is a Latin translation of some lines from one of the Greek poet, Homer's, greatest poems.
on or , the children tie up their mother, releasing her only when she has paid them with sweets or other goodies.In Yugoslavia"Materitse,"Materice,Mother's Day
children Mother's Day is refered to as . It provides children and adults to honour their mothers and give her gifts and treats. Mother's Day is celebrated on the last Sunday in May. It is treated more like a family birthday. Everyone in the family gathers for a special meal.In FranceFete des Meres
, people on Mother's Day honor their mothers as well as the church. They respect the - the spiritual power that gave them life and protected them from harm. The church festival got blended with the Mothering Sunday celebration.In Europe"Mother Church"
Mother's Day is . It is closely associated with Mother Mary - the mother of Jesus. On this children send special cards, chocolates, flowers and other presents to their mothers. But many children make their own presents for their mothers.In Spaincelebrated on 8th December
In Sweden Mother's Day is on the last Sunday in May and is a family holiday. The Swedish Red Cross sells small plastic flowers on the days leading up to Mother's Day. The money raised from the sale of the flowers is used to help needy mothers and their children.
52 % of the words for mother in the material have ma/me/mo or na/ne/no in the root syllable poems.
An AT&T survey estimated that 122.5 million phone calls to Mom are made on Mother's Day.
Other Mother's Day findings revealed that 11 percent never call their mothers, and 3 percent of the 68 percent planning to ring Mom up called her collect.
In the vast majority of the world's languages, the word for "motherbegins with the letter M.