Jump to: , navigation search
The (or ) was an in the period 1792 to 1816, with remnants lasting into the 1820s. The Federalists controlled the federal government until 1801. The party was formed by , who, during 's first term, built a network of supporters, largely urban, to support his fiscal policies. These supporters grew into the Federalist Party, which wanted a fiscally sound and militarily strong nation state.Federalist PartyFederal Party American political party Alexander Hamilton George Washington nationalistic
[] edit Overview
The Federalists wanted a strong central government and had little interest in . The new party advocated a loose construction of the based on the "". It believed that rule by a well-educated elite would serve all interests, and appealed to merchants, bankers, lawyers, editors, landowners, and industrialists; one of 's favorite maxims was, "The people who own the country ought to govern it". Its most powerful leader was Hamilton and his hero was George Washington. The Party built a network of newspapers and had substantial support from religious leaders, especially in . Unlike the opposition , it paid little attention to . In the long run, one of the party's most influential members was , who strengthened the powers of the while . Although Marshall never joined the party, and attempted to remain non-partisan during his term of office, he supported most of Hamilton's programs and the party used him as hero and symbol. states' rights United States Constitution Necessary-and-proper clause John Jay New England Democratic-Republicans grass roots organizing John Marshall judiciary Chief Justice of the United States
The were the first ones to be contested on anything resembling a partisan basis. In most states the were, as supporter put it, a "struggle between the and the interest." In , the race for governor was organized along these lines. The candidates were John Jay, a Hamiltonian, and incumbent , who was allied with Jefferson. elections of 1792 congressional elections Jefferson John Beckley Treasury department republican New York George Clinton
Part of this article consists of modified text from , and the article is therefore licensed under . Wikipedia GFDL