TargetWoman - Portal for Women
TargetWoman is a directory/portal dedicated to Women - Articles of lasting value from Hair styles to liposuction, from working women to fashion jewellery and a handpicked listing of sites of importance to women.
Wedding Budget Calculator
Search from our Articles
                     Read this page later  Book mark this page  Print this page Send this to your friend Browse by Topic Social BookMark
Weddings are memorable occasions - one where a couple takes the vows to start a new life together. It is an occasion for friends and family of the couple to get together and make it a special day for them. An average wedding costs between $12,000 to $19,000. Take a look at our wedding budget planner. You can plan out the various expenditures carefully by using online wedding budget calculators. If you are planning a wedding on a low budget, we provide you useful tips that can help you cut down the wedding costs.
When planning out your wedding budget, there are many things to keep in mind. The location and time of the year is critical in the planning for the wedding ceremony. The weather conditions will play a role in deciding the decorations, transportation, wedding dress and other activities for the guests. The traditional custom was for the bride's family to pay for the entire wedding but these days it is being shared with the groom's family. Many a time, the bride and groom pay for the entire wedding themselves. It is not prudent for the young couple to get into debt at the start of their married life. They can plan a low budget wedding - one that will be a perfect start for a lifetime ahead but one that will also allow the couple to save for other essentials.Wedding Budget
Low Budget Wedding Plan
Weddings can be expensive affairs. But you can plan a low budget wedding and still have a great party and memorable day. Prudent planning can keep your wedding budget under control. If you are planning a wedding on a budget, take a few tips to keep the expenses from mounting out of control:
An off-season wedding can bring down your wedding budget considerably. You might be able to pick up better deals on services. The wedding seasons tend to see higher prices for limousine rentals, florists and venues.
Shop wisely at budget stores that can provide you with candles, lights and other wedding items for table centerpieces and wedding accessories.
Choose your location with care when planning a low budget wedding. You can have a wonderful wedding party in a house, be it yours or your friends'. Try looking for local churches or public gardens.
Decorations can be an expensive affair at weddings. Plan your decorations carefully so as to avoid ostentation. In fact, you can plan the decoration keeping in mind the location of the wedding party.
Select flowers that are in season. Avoid orchids and roses if you are planning a wedding on a low budget. Opt instead for traditional daisies, carnations, chrysanthemums, baby's breath and gladiolus.
Enlist the support of family and friends - you can rent out, borrow or make as many items as possible.
For a low budget wedding, you can order a small wedding cake for the display. A large sheet cake can be used to cut and serve the guests. Many tiered cakes with elaborate decorations are expensive.
A buffet will work out cheaper than a sit down meal. You can consider buying the drinks and wine yourself. Purchase your liquor from wholesalers.
Keep your guest list small if you are planning a wedding on a budget.
Make use of online wedding budget calculators to help you plan out your expenditure wisely.
Compare and settle on a suitable photography deal that will be cost effective.
Use silk or dried flowers instead of fresh ones in table centerpieces.
Catering costs form the bulk of the wedding reception costs. Typically a wedding budget plan is divided as follows:Wedding Budget Plan
Reception (45%)