Baccarat history
How To Make A Poker Blog
If youre not aware of any blog hosting site, simply use the search engine to find blog hosting sites for you and choose from any of the top results. Most blog hosting sites let you blog for free, just as long you let them place ads  usually just text ads so theyre not that irritating  on your blog. But thats okay because your main purpose after all is not to have the best looking poker blog  although that would be a nice honor too  but simply, a poker blog that could help you improve your poker skills and maybe enjoy the game even more.
If you have no idea what to look for when it comes to blog hosting sites, here are several features that would be quite helpful as you make your very own poker blog. First, it has to be free. At this point, you really dont need to subscribe to a paid account for your poker blog just yet. Maybe later. But not now. Secondly, the blog owner must be given the option of keeping any entries of his private or For Your Eyes Only. After all, there may be times that youd need to write about highly sensitive topics  like which online poker players to avoid because of their nasty habits  and since youre a peace loving person and all, naturally you wouldnt want that post to be open for public consumption.
Secondly, you would want a blog hosting site that would allow you to keep certain posts to be permanently posted in your website. It would be tedious after all to always say the same thing over and over  like who you are, your purpose for keeping a poker blog  so it would be quite helpful if the blog hosting site allows you to keep certain posts stuck on the main page of your poker blog.
Thirdly, it would also be a nice touch if the blog hosting site youll choose would allow you to upload pictures, videos and music. Pictures say a thousand words, dont they? So wouldnt it be nice to have a post accompanied with snapshots of you and your poker buddies or photos of the first time you attended a poker tournament?
Fourth, choose a blog hosting site that would let people comment on your entries, even if theyre not registered members. That way, when someone you know or someone interested in what youre saying drops by your poker blog, hed be able to let you know that he was there and give his say about whatever it is that youve written about. If not, at least choose a blog hosting site that allows tagboards to be uploaded.
Top 4 Casinos:
zadax
Our online poker room recommendations are second-to-none because of our strict criteria. If we recommend the online poker room, know its excellent. Feel safe and secure playing at any one of the online poker rooms we recommend. Email: Copyright © 2007 The Guide to the Best Poker Sites. All rights reserved