Rice Environment
Rice Growing Constraints
Static yields and labor shortages during peak growing seasons constitute two of the major constraints in Thailand's rice production. In the past few decades, rural rice growers migrate to the Bangkok metropolitan area to find jobs. During the low season, this mass migration into the city may benefit the rural families in terms of higher household income. However, when the peak rice growing season arrives, labor shortage will occur as a result of this mass migration.
Furthermore, the soil and climate conditions also contribute to the rice growing constraints. Some of the problems include:      - Inconsistent rainfalls, such as instant draughts and floods      - Poor soil, such as saline and sulfate soil problems      - Climate problems, such as low temperature in some ricelands      - Diseases and pests For rice production development, on-going researches are being conducted in various areas, such as productivity, precipitation, growing environment, rice pests & diseases, and other related areas.
Increasing Yield
An efficient irrigation system is the heart of rice growing because a rice field is generally susceptible to unpredictable climate and weather conditions. These environmental factors sometimes produce flash floods or droughts, which could prevent the rice from reaching its natural yield. An advanced irrigation system will alleviate this unpredictability of nature by controling the inflow and outflow of water from the field.
Developing hybrid rice for the tropics provide another alternative to increasing the rice yield, according to The International Rice Research Institute (www.riceweb.org). This research suggests that rice hybrids yield about 20% higher than do inbred rices.
Using fertilizer could also increase the rice yield. In Asian region, where the environmental factors are most suitable for growing, farmers use fertilizers in optimal amounts. According to the report of the International Rice Research Institute, applying fertilizer could increase the yield between 0.4% to 1.8%.
 