al ter nate()ltYr nit, al-; ltYr nt2, al-22for v.22
adjective
occurring by turns; succeeding each other; one and then the otherstripes of blue and whitealternate
every other; every secondto report on Tuesdaysalternate
being one of two or more choices; alternative
Bot.
growing along the stem singly at different intervals, first on one side then the other, etc.
placed at intervals between other parts, as in a flower
Etymology: L , pp. of , to do by turns < , one after the other < , other: seealternatusalternarealternusalter alter
noun
a person standing by to take the place of another if necessary; substitute
transitive verb,- nat2ed alternated - nat2 ing alternating
to do or use by turns
to make happen or arrange by turns
intransitive verb
to act, happen, etc. by turns; follow successivelygood times with badalternate
to take turns
to exchange places, etc. regularly
to reverse direction periodically: said of a currentElec.
Related Forms:
al2 ter nately alternately adverb
Usage Examplesalternating
Object
: Irritable Bowel Syndrome causes a wide range of symptoms including and diarrhea and abdominal cramping. constipation alternating constipation
: Sixty-four per cent of those with sores were being nursed on an of some sort. mattress alternating pressure mattress
: Two numbers are needed in general to specify an or quantity unambiguously, assuming the frequency is already known. voltage alternating voltage
: It occurs in and goes through a tanning process during molting which adds to its strength. layer alternating layers
: When the button was pressed the started. sequence alternating sequence
: We thank David Bilton for pointing out to us the of tropical centipedes. pattern alternating segmentation pattern
Preposition: with
: Inorganic iron supplements can cause diarrhea and stomach cramps. constipation alternating with constipation
: Cut the remaining bread into triangles and fill the ramekins with these, of chocolate and orange rind. layer alternating with layers
: The second half of the month was then marked by cold snaps . period alternating with milder periods
Modifying Another Word
: ice packs with warm wheat bags or a hot water bottle can ease the ache in the knees. sometimes Sometimes alternating
Adjective complement
: To do this I will use a power pack with an with an e.. . current alternating current
Browse entries near dictionary alternating