Media critic’s column rejected by Rocky
Jan. 7, 2009One Comment
Jason Salzman, who contributes a media column for the Rocky Mountain News, writes on his blog about a column he wrote that the newspaper did not run. The column addresses what Salzman says is a lack of coverage about the government’s potential role in the fate of the newspaper. Read the full blog post and column . here
On Wednesday, Rocky editor John Temple responded to Salzman’s blog post. Read the response . here
One Comment »
said:Conkasaur
It’s clear Jason has good intentions to help find a way to save the Rocky. But the approach is wrong.
I have to agree with Rocky editor John Temple. This is really a miserable piece. Very poorly written. I think if anyone is missing the point here it’s Jason.
There is an irony here too. This piece epitomizes why real journalists, professional news writers and editors, can’t be replaced by freelance bloggers.
P.S. Jason, you have a grammatical error in your very first sentence.
# 9 January 2009 at 4:17 pm
Leave your response!
Add your comment below, or from your own site. You can also via RSS. trackback subscribe to these comments
Be nice. Keep it clean. Stay on topic. No spam.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website (optional)
You can use these tags:
<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>
This is a Gravatar-enabled weblog. To get your own globally-recognized-avatar, please register at . Gravatar
Testimonials
More testimonials
What you can do to help
listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper Preservation Act.
reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the board of E.W. Scripps
, send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts
a newspaper.Buy
Contact Rep. Ed Perlmutter, District 7
We meet in this strange place in a noble effort to save the . And if we cant save the , we can, at minimum, make some noise before we go. Since the day the proposed sale of the was announced, weve been waiting for the odd billionaire to join our cause. This may surprise you, but none has come forward. Apparently Phil and Tim and Pat and the rest of the team must have misplaced our e-mail address. So, we turn now to the non-billionaires. We think there may be more of you. Ever since Denver was a collection of shacks and gold miners tents, the has been here to chronicle each day of our state's life. We covered the Civil War, Colorado statehood, the Ludlow Massacre, two world wars and the Great Depression, six Broncos Super Bowls, two Stanley Cup championships, two national political conventions, the tragedy at Columbine, the fires of 2002, the Iraq war's home front, and all of Colorado's booms and busts. reporters Kevin Flynn, Lynn Bartels, David Milstead, sports columnist Sam Adams, assistant sports editor Steve Foster, news editor Curt Anderson and longtime broadcast columnist Dusty Saunders were on Peter Boyles' morning show on KHOW 630 AM Monday. Listen to the podcasts here: | A collection of some of the about the being sold since the announcement was made. Connect with others who are trying to the save the newspaper by on Facebook. Are you a former or current staff member of the Rocky? to catch up with old friends.
Greetings from iwantmyrocky.com
Who we are and what we're doing
Rocky Mountain News
This latest bust could be our last. The owners of our paper have put us up for sale and hinted at shutting us down if they cant find a buyer.
We are prepared to fight that. We are the reporters, editors, photographers, web producers and everyone who brings you the . We take pride in what we do for our readers, our community and our industry, just as our predecessors William Byers, William A.H. Loveland, Damon Runyon, Mary Coyle Chase and Gene Amole.Rocky
Unless we can make something happen by the middle of January, our owners could close the Rocky. Colorado deserves better.
So were taking our case to you, our readers, our friends, our neighbors. Through this Web site and other efforts, the staff of the wants to:Rocky
of the in our community.Preserve and protect the editorial voiceRocky
of the and its historical archives, which provide a window to the infancy of our state and the city of Denver.Preserve and protect the legacyRocky
of more than 200 Coloradans and the many others that would be affected by the newspaper's closure.Fight for the jobs
The Rocky on the radio