Getting Your Feet Wet With Social Marketing
Veneman Says Food Stamp Benefits for Newly Qualified Legal Immigrants Begins April 1
WASHINGTON, March 26, 2003- Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman today said that Food Stamp Program benefits for newly qualified legal immigrants become effective April 1.
"President Bush is committed to ensuring that those eligible to receive food stamps can access available benefits," said Veneman. "This is an important step in the on-going effort to improve access for low-income households and in restoring fairness and equity for legal immigrants."
President Bush called for the extension of benefits in the FY 2003 budget proposal. The proposal, which became law as part of the 2002 Farm Bill, restores food stamp eligibility to many legal immigrants who had previously lost eligibility. Beginning April 1, 2003, immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for five years as qualified aliens, and who are otherwise eligible, will have food stamp benefits restored.
Over the next six months, USDA will work to communicate the eligibility changes through a variety of outreach activities, including Spanish language radio announcements. The one-minute radio announcements, entitled "Fuente de Salud" (Fountain of Health) and "Camino al Exito," (Road to Success) will air daily on the Hispanic Radio Network (HRN). USDA officials also will appear on HRN's Bienvenidos a América (Welcome to America) to discuss the regulatory changes. The radio announcements and talk show appearances are part of the Food Stamps Make America Stronger campaign, which includes outreach to a wide-range of immigrant groups, seniors and the working poor.
"Food stamps are improving the nutrition of low-income families across the country," said USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Eric Bost. "We are committed to educating legal immigrants, seniors and others about the food stamp program and benefits that may be available to them."
The Food Stamp Program is administered by the USDA Food and Nutrition Service. The Food Stamp Program is the cornerstone of the federal food assistance programs, and provides crucial support to needy households and to those making the transition from welfare to work. The program enables low-income families to buy nutritious food with coupons and electronic benefits transfer cards. Food stamp recipients spend their benefits to buy eligible food in authorized retail food stores.
Further information about the Food Stamp Program, including the 2002 Farm Bill provisions, is available at . www.fns.usda.gov
Posted April 4, 2003