Florida Multicultural Mandates
Internet resources for the study of state-mandated social studies topics.  Please also see links for American History, Florida History and Pasco History.
The text of the Florida statute detailing these topics is reproduced  at the bottom of this page.
 
FloridaStatute:  Required Instruction Social Studies
1. The content of the Declaration of
Independenceand how it forms the philosophical foundation of our government. 2.  . 3. 
The arguments in support of adopting our republican form of government, as they are embodied in the most important of the Federalist Papers
The essentials of the
United StatesConstitution and how it provides the structure of our government.  4.   5.     6.  
Flag education, including proper flag display and flag salute.
The elements of civil government shall include the primary functions of and interrelationships between the Federal Government, the state, and its counties,  municipalities, school districts, and special districts.
The history of the Holocaust (1933-1945), the systematic, planned annihilation of  European Jews and other groups by Nazi Germany, a watershed event in the history of humanity, to be taught in a manner that leads to an investigation of human behavior, and understanding of the ramifications of prejudice, racism, and stereotyping, and an examination of what it means to be a responsible and   respectful person, for the purpose of encouraging tolerance of diversity in a  pluralistic society and for nurturing and protecting democratic values and institutions.  
7.  8.    9.   The History of African Americans, including the history of African peoples before the political conflicts that led to the development of slavery, the passage to America, the enslavement experience, abolition, and the contributions of African Americans to society is an area of study.
The history of the state.
The study of Hispanic contributions to the
United States.10.  Th
e study of women's contributions to the
United States. 11.  .  Such instruction must occur on or before Veteran's Day and Memorial Day.  Members of the instructional staff are encouraged to use the assistance of local veterans when practicable. 12.
In order to encourage patriotism, the sacrifices that veterans have made in serving our country and protecting democratic values worldwide
Declaration of
Independence.  CS/HB 885 designates the last full week in September as "Celebrate Freedom Week."  During this week, each social studies class must include a minimum of three hours of instruction in the Declaration of Independence and each school day must begin with an oral recitation by students of "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers form the consent of the governed."  Students may be excused from the recitation based on a written request from their parents.     
 