August 29, 2008
MAX Session Highlight - Extending Spry
One of the MAX 2008 sessions I'm most excited about is session "". Danilo's both an engineer for as well as a hardcore individual developer, having been writing Dreamweaver extensions since the API was published years ago. If you've been working with but not venturing much 'outside the box', this is exactly the session for you- Danilo will cover custom widgets, transitions and effects by extending the base Spry component set, and how to really take the visual effects to the next level. Danilo Celic's Extending the Spry Framework WebAssist Spry
For a few bloghints from Danilo to whet your appetite, you can check out his posts "", and "", and know that he's going to school you much, much deeper in the session. Even if you're more of a general JavaScript coder, this session should have a ton of real-world information you can get tactical with fast. Highly recommended! Help for creating custom Spry transitions Upping your Transition Count
Posted by sfegette at | 01:25 PM Comments (0)
July 25, 2008
Silverback - Guerrilla Usability Testing
A few months back, I made a about some internal screencasts I was working on, and got a private ping from user experience guru , asking a bit about what I was recording and what software I was using to do so. That's when I began suspecting that the crew had some devious alchemy underway in their Brighton, UK headquarters. random Tweet Clearleft's Andy Budd Clearleft
The result of such mad science? - a Mac-based application for lightweight usability testing. All you need is a Mac laptop and to capture usability testing sessions on... well, anything that you can run on a Mac. Very cool. Silverback Silverback
As opposed to , the 10-ton elephant of usability testing, is lean, mean and focused- and doesn't require you to lug around cameras, tripods and control machines to supplement the testing environment. And in contrast with bulkier screencast production tools like Captivate and ScreenFlow, Silverback focuses on the organizational and functional tools you need to perform quick, lightweight usability tests wherever you can find a subject and perch a laptop (or desktop) with both screen activity and iSight video captured for each user session. Morae Silverback
As I'd expect from Andy, the Silverback interface is refreshingly straightforward and direct - with your initial view of the application helping ease new users quickly into the workflow:
I've had the opportunity to test Silverback over the last few weeks, and find it incredibly useful for exactly this type of testing. I can quickly drop my laptop on someone's desk, fire up Dreamweaver CS4 internal builds, and the workflow is great- just click record, center your subject within the iSight correctly, then hit record and step back to let your subject hit the spacebar, and start your test. Management of projects and test sessions is simple and effective- the projects pane on the left helping you navigate the test session list on the top right with your individual session details and annotations artfully presented beneath.
When you're ready to export a session to a more portable/distributable video file, just hit the "Export" button underneath the appropriate video thumbnail, pick a video format and destination, then let the encoding commence. As with all encoding processes this can take some time depending on the size of your session and codec/resolution of choice, but the resulting video will encapsulate both the screen capture and iSight video, along with microphone and computer audio- making it easy to share the results amongst your workgroup.
For a bit more on Silverback from the source, Andy's also put together a screencast to accompany the release- you can view it below to get a walk through the workflow:
from on .