[] edit Political career
Illus. in: Portraits of generals, ministers, magistrates, members of Congress, and others, who have rendered themselves illustrious in the revolution of the United States of North America / Du Simiti re. London : R. Wilkinson and J. Debrett, 1783, no. 9. After a drawing by Pierre Eug ne Du Simiti re.
On May 8, 1775, Morris was elected to represent his family estate in the , an extralegal assembly dedicated to achieving independence. His advocacy of independence brought him into conflict with his family, as well as his mentor William Smith, who had abandoned the patriot cause when it moved towards independence. [2] New York Provincial Congress
Morris had a wooden leg. According to research, he liked to dance and managed to dance well on his wooden leg. He lost his leg in an accident.
Despite an automatic exemption from military duty because of his handicap and his service in the legislature, he joined a special "briefs" club for the protection of , a forerunner of the modern . New York City New York Guard
As a member of the , he concentrated on turning the colony into an independent state. He was largely responsible for the of the new state of New York. New York Provincial Congress 1777 constitution
After the in August 1776, the British seized New York City and his family's estate. His mother, a , gave the estate over to the British for military use. Because his estate was now in the possession of the enemy, he was no longer eligible for election to the New York state legislature and was instead appointed as a delegate to the . Battle of Long Island Loyalist Continental Congress
He took his seat in Congress on January 28, 1778 and was immediately selected to a committee in charge of coordinating reforms in the military with General Washington. On a trip to , he was so appalled by the conditions of the troops that he became the spokesman for the Continental Army in Congress and pushed for substantial reforms in the training and methods of the army. He also signed the in 1778. Valley Forge Articles of Confederation
In 1779, he was defeated for re-election to Congress, largely because his advocacy of a strong central government was at odds with the decentralist views in . Defeated in his home state, he moved to to work as a lawyer and merchant. New York Philadelphia
In Philadelphia, he was appointed assistant superintendent of finance (1781-1785), and was a Pennsylvania delegate to the in 1787, before returning to live in New York in 1788. Constitutional Convention
During the convention, he was a friend and ally of George Washington and others who favored a stronger central government. Morris was elected to serve on a committee of five (chaired by ) that would draft the final language of the proposed Constitution. , in , called Morris the committee's "," meaning that it was his pen that was responsible for most of the draft. William Samuel Johnson Catherine Drinker Bowen Miracle at Philadelphia amanuensis [3]
"An aristocrat to the core," Morris believed that "there never was, nor ever will be a civilized Society without an Aristocracy". He also thought that common people were incapable of self-government and feared that the poor would sell their votes to rich people, and consequently thought that voting should be restricted to property owners. Morris also opposed admitting new Western states on an equal basis with the existing Eastern states, fearing that the interior wilderness could not furnish "enlightened" statesmen. At the Convention he gave more speeches than any other delegate, totaling 173. [4] [5]
He went to on business in 1789 and served as from 1792-1794. His diaries written during that time have become an invaluable chronicle of the , capturing much of the turbulence and violence of that era. He returned to the United States in 1798 and was elected in 1800 as a to the to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of , serving from April 3, 1800, to March 3, 1803. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1802. After leaving the Senate, he served as chairman of the , 1810-1813. Europe Minister Plenipotentiary to France French Revolution Federalist United States Senate James Watson Erie Canal Commission
[] edit Family and legacy
At the age of 57, he married Anne Cary ("Nancy") Randolph, who was the sister to , husband of 's daughter . He died at the family estate of and is buried at in the borough of New York City. They had a son, , who grew up to be a railroad executive. Thomas Mann Randolph, Jr. Thomas Jefferson Martha Jefferson Randolph Morrisania St. Ann's Episcopal Church Bronx Gouverneur Jr.
Morris also became an important landowner in northern , where the and in are named after him. New York Town of Gouverneur Village of Gouverneur St. Lawrence County
Morris's half-brother, (1726-1798), was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Another half-brother, , was a Loyalist and major-general in the British army during the American Revolution. His nephew, , served in the Vermont legislature and in the United States Congress. His grandnephew was , under . Morris's great-grandson, also named Gouverneur (1876-1953), was an author of and short stories during the early twentieth century. Several of his works were adapted into films, including the famous film . Lewis Morris Staats Long Morris Lewis Richard Morris William M. Meredith United States Secretary of the Treasury Zachary Taylor pulp novels Lon Chaney, Sr. The Penalty [6] [7]