Viewing Tips and Note for AOL Users
What is a Colonia?
Colonias are “...unincorporated border communities that often lack adequate water and sewer systems, paved roads, and safe, sanitary housing.”
Office of the Governor
"’Colonia’ is a Spanish term for neighborhood or community. In Texas, colonia refers to an unincorporated settlement along the Texas-Mexico border that may lack basic water and sewer systems, electricity, paved roads, and safe and sanitary housing. Most colonias are outside city limits or in isolated areas of the county. Many have a very limited property tax base and are either isolated in a rural area or outside city limits.”
“...colonias are defined as primarily residential subdivisions in which
water or wastewater services are inadequate to meet the minimal needs of residential users;
financial resources are inadequate to satisfy minimal water and wastewater service needs; and
there are five or more housing units.”
Texas Water Development Board Water and Wastewater Needs of Texas Colonias: 1995 Update
“An economically distressed area [or colonia] is one in which water supply or wastewater systems do not meet minimal state standards, financial resources are inadequate to provide services to meet those needs, and 80 percent of dwellings in the area were occupied on June 1, 1989. Affected counties are counties adjacent to the Texas-Mexico border, or with per capita income 25 percent below the state average and unemployment rates 25 percent above the state average for the most recent three consecutive years for which statistics are available ....”
Texas Water Development Board’s Water and Wastewater Survey of Economically Distressed Areas – December 1996
“The term Colonia is a Spanish term for neighborhood or community. A colonia is further defined as an unincorporated community located within 150 miles of the Texas-Mexico border, or a city or town within said 150 mile region with a population of less than 10,000 according to the latest U.S. Census, that has a majority population composed of individuals and families of low and very low income, who lack safe, sanitary and sound housing, together with basic services such as potable water, adequate sewage systems, drainage, streets and utilities.”