  |  |  | Graduate Catalog Undergraduate Catalog Certificates Student Learning
Olga Mokrova: Master's Degree Student, Security Management
Olga Mokrova says shes found her niche. She came to the United States last year from Russia, continuing her seven-year career with the United Nations. The niche Mokrova refers to, though, is pursuing her degree in security management at American Military University  and meshing that with her military and other life experiences.
I know my degree will help me do my current job better and prepare me for future opportunities, Mokrova says.
She says her online security management courses draw upon and broaden her military experience. Mokrova joined what was then the Soviet Union military in 1983. She served for 18 years, 13 of them as a professional officer. She resigned as a major in what became the Russian Armed Forces. I joined because of my romantic ideas of the military, not practical ones, she reminisces. Mokrova wanted the chance to study foreign languages and live among different cultures. Women officers were also rare at that time and Mokrova wanted to change that. She was able to earn a bachelors degree and a masters degree.
The perestroika movement, or economic restructuring, in the late 1980s led to changes for the military, however. Mokrova says the military was in a difficult transition and was losing its popularity among the people. She also wasnt paid for months at a time -- while supporting two small children.           
Mokrova decided to pursue a law degree, concentrating in finance and bank management, as she transitioned to civilian life. She studied through a distance learning program. This program was like many that preceded todays online learning models. Mokrova completed assignments by mail and traveled from St. Petersburg to Moscow for exams.
Mokrova says trying to pursue a traditional career in law would have been difficult. She did have tremendous experience from her military career and the academic background, but she would have been competing with others with many years experience in the field.
She was able, instead, to earn a position as an operations officer for the United Nations. One of her field missions was to Kosovo. In late 2006, she came to U.N. headquarters in New York for a position as a security coordination officer.
I know how to be a good military commander, says Mokrova. I needed to know more about other security issues like security design, access control and physical security, risk and threat assessment, crisis management, training and fire prevention.
A friend suggested she look at AMUs degree programs. One look at the web site convinced Mokrova that AMU had the program for her. Whats more, AMU offered ways to make pursing a masters degree doable. Mokrova pays her own tuition, so she appreciates the ability to make scheduled payments instead of one lump sum. The monthly class starts allow her to schedule courses around upcoming business or family commitments. Mokrova admits that she misses her studies when shes between courses. I am absolutely fascinated by the study of security management, she says.
:Fast Facts
: New York City : Two daughters: Katherina, 20 years old, and Anastasia, 11 years old : Served 13 years in the Soviet and Russian Armed Forces, resigned in 2001 as a Major : United Nations Security Coordination Officer : Masters degree in security management : Continue her career at the United NationsResidence
Family