Editoriales ...
Increasing Democracy to eliminate Poverty
The achievement of the Millennium’s goals constitutes a challenge for our Democracies. We consider that although the goals agreed at the United Nations to eradicate extreme poverty in the world are modest, the commitment of our Governments must be fulfilled with support of an international mobilization involving the active participation of all public and private players of human activity, mainly the people in deep and close relation with their governments.
Poverty is the consequence of the absence of Democracy and we think that this is not a fatality. It is, however, necessary and essential to increase Democracy to prove that point. President Hugo Chávez has often repeated: "” and “”. We firmly believe that this is the direction we must follow:if we want to eliminate poverty we must give power to the poorthe first power of the people is knowledgewe must increase Democracy to give power to the poor.
Indeed, in Venezuela we practice Participatory and Protagonist Democracy, which is a mandate of the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Our Constitution facilitates the participation of organized communities under the principle of joint responsibility and solidarity. In Venezuela the poor assume their condition and the bolivarian government supports and promotes their initiatives in the search for solutions to their poverty. In this way, the Social and Productive Missions in Venezuela have become the most suitable methods to increase Democracy by reducing poverty
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and Canada must join efforts with countries in the Caribbean and Africa, which are the most affected by poverty, to demonstrate to all peoples in the world that their problems are also ours. We invite, thus, all Canadians to join us in the task of increasing democracy in the American Continent and beyond.
Dr. Jesús Arnaldo Pérez
Goals of the Millennium
1.- Millennium Goals: General frame of the fight against poverty
The Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is working on an institutional reorganization with the purpose of fulfilling the objectives contained in the millennium declaration signed by all the Chiefs of State and Government of the world, at the United Nations, on September 2000. The objective of the Declaration is to reduce extreme poverty in the world by one half, by the year 2015, through social programs and the promotion of sustainable development.
In Venezuela, the social and productive missions established by the bolivarian government have proved their worth and efficiency in overcoming structural problems. So far, they represent one of the most remarkable alternatives that the Bolivarian Revolution has put in practice to reach the Millennium’s Goals, amongst which we can mention the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, attaining universal education, promoting gender equality and women’s autonomy and guaranteeing the sustainability of the atmosphere; in a few words, guaranteeing Sustainable Development.
 2.- Venezuela: Territory Free of Illiteracy - A Victory against Poverty
Message of the General Director of UNESCO on the occasion of the Declaration of Venezuela as Territory Free of Illiteracy October  28, 2005
Today, 28 October 2005, marks an important milestone for Venezuela in its efforts to create a literate society. In declaring itself a ‘territory free of illiteracy’, Venezuela is highlighting its major contribution to our common march towards Education for All (EFA). The advances achieved by the Misión Robinson would not have been possible without political will and support at the highest level and in this regard President Hugo Chávez Frías deserves to be warmly congratulated.
One of the key features of the Misión Robinson has been its outreach to all persons without discrimination on the basis of gender, age, creed, physical capacity/disability, language or location. Indeed, Venezuela has taken the word “all” in “Education for All” very much to heart.
Many women and men, both learners and tutors, have been involved in the Misión Robinson since 2003 and they are to be congratulated for their efforts. Drawing upon the Cuban method known as Yo Sí Puedo, which in English means “Yes, I can”, and with technical assistance from Cuban advisors, the Misión Robinson has been undertaken in the framework of South-South cooperation. Using this fast-track methodology, the program has aimed at reaching a large number of learners in a short period of time. I am sure that other countries in the region and further afield will be interested in knowing more about this approach.
Venezuela is making determined efforts aimed at linking literacy to post-literacy and lifelong learning through its higher level of non-formal education channels: Misión Robinson II, Misión Ribas and Misión Sucre. Such linkages are important for consolidating and building on the literacy gains that have been made…. On this day, Venezuela deserves to be commended for the renewed vigor of its literacy efforts, which show what can be done when societies are mobilized behind educational goals. This example of national commitment is one that hopefully will inspire others to step up their action to rid their countries and the world at large of the scourge of illiteracy. On this special day, I send my warm greetings to the government and people of Venezuela and my encouragement to address other educational challenges with equal commitment and energy.
3.- Oil: A tool against poverty
The Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is presently using its oil revenues to finance the social, educational, sanitary and economic budgets of the Ministries involved in the social and productive missions. This means that oil has become a very important instrument in the battle to fight poverty and to pay off the “social debt” not only in Venezuela but in the whole American continent as well. The Bolivarian Government has established different cooperation projects based on oil throughout the continent and has made heating oil available at discounted prices to poor communities in the United States through the Venezuelan enterprise CITGO.
4. - Oil: Energy for International Sustainable Development
The Bolivarian Government has made its oil resources available to boost a cooperation scheme based on complementing the economies, solidarity and the respect of sovereignty of the countries involved. That is how the energy cooperation project of an initiative aimed at integrating the Americas within the framework of the , was born.PETROAMÉRICA,Bolivarian Alternative for America (ALBA)
As a first step, in 2005, fourteen Caribbean countries decided to create , welcoming the initiative of the Venezuelan President, aimed at guaranteeing energy security while strengthening economic and social development through the rational and shared use of energy resources.PETROCARIBE
5. - Climate Change: The need for a consensus and global and local actions
Undoubtedly, the phenomenon of climate change is closely related to human activity. The consequences of climate change can be seen in the recent environmental catastrophes that took place this year in the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, caused by hurricanes like Stan, Katrina, Wilma, etc. These catastrophes have an enormous human, economic and ecological impact that particularly affects the poorest segments of our societies.
Most of the governments around the world have reacted to this evidence. These problems cannot be solved without a worldwide realization of the danger we are facing. We must begin by making changes in our daily life in order to construct a better future for the coming generations.
President Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías made an appeal at the United Nations to save the planet and to fight against climate change. Venezuela ratified the Kyoto Protocol and is preparing a political strategy to face climate changes, assuming in this way the dual energy and environmental responsibility of our country.
6. - Cultural Diversity: Foundation of our culture
The government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela supported the Convention on Cultural Diversity recently approved by the General Assembly of UNESCO. This policy adapts itself perfectly to the mandates of the Venezuelan constitution where "" is expressly recognized, reflecting the cultural foundations of the Venezuelan nation.  Venezuela and Canada worked together at UNESCO to insure the approval of this convention and should now join efforts to guarantee its implementation.inter-culturality under the principle of equality of cultures
 