Contact Us
 
A city of alluring contrasts, Dubai is a combination of old and new, ancient and modern traditions, deserts and beaches, and blended cultures that create an exciting, cosmopolitan metropolis. Its elevation as a business, travel, and economic hub of the Middle East has also inspired a fun, safe, and lavish environment.
Dubai is a great destination for those seeking a unique, luxurious experience with several options to relax and play. The Jumeirah beach area boasts stunning resorts that take full advantage of the gorgeous white shoreline. A bustling downtown area offers gold-and-spice souks, high-end shopping and exciting nightlife. Inland, the salt-crusted coastal plains give way to a north-south running line of dunes where premium resorts offer guests a more tranquil experience amidst desert beauty. There are also notable resorts just outside of Dubai such as in Abu Dhabi and across the border in Oman that make the greater Dubai area a truly one-of-a-kind destination.
The city prides itself on offering guests a bigger and better experience than its luxury-playground counterparts: Accommodations are unparalleled, service is outstanding, meals are a gastronomic delight, and the activities are endless. Dubai is home to the tallest building in the World and some of the most extravagant hotels anywhere. It also hosts one of the world richest golf tournaments, the Dubai Desert Classic, and the Dubai World Cup the world richest horse race.
Dubai offers many other unique activities, including desert treks incorporating camel racing, sandboarding, exhilarating dune rides, and falconry. Additional diversions include marvelous duty-free shopping, excellent golf, a water park, an indoor ski facility, and scuba diving. For adventure after dark, Dubai large number of restaurants, bars, and nightclubs provide entertainment and refreshment in a variety of truly rich settings.
Long thought of as a stopover city, Dubai is now easily a destination in itself but can be combined with any number of cities and islands as flights arrive into Dubai from many places around the world including New York, Houston, and Atlanta in the U.S.
October through April is the coolest time of the year. The rest of the year can be very hot. May to September are very hot months with July and August having rather high humidity. During the hot season it is normal for hotel rates to drop substantially.
Getting to Dubai is easier than it ever has been. There are nonstop flights in North America to Dubai from New York, Atlanta, Houston, and Toronto.
Emirates Airlines fly's three times a day between New York and Dubai. Emirates Airlines also fly's between Houston and Dubai, and Toronto and Dubai. Delta Airlines fly's between Atlanta and Dubai.
Dubai can also be reached from most major cities in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, and Asia.
There are a number of airlines that fly to Dubai through Europe and Asia.
Dubai's airport is becoming one of the busiest airports anywhere.
Excursions