Repetitive Strain InjuryAlso indexed as:
Skip to:
Remedy options
Amount to take
Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition of the forearm and wrist that comes from overuse or stress, causing nerve compression that leads to weakness, pain, and restricted movement. Working at a keyboard, typing, carpentry, and other tasks that require repetitive motions of the wrists and hands are common causes. Sensations of numbness, tingling, and burning may be felt, and pain or weakness can affect the arm and neck. Homeopathic remedies often help to relieve discomfort and limitation.
For dosage information, please read the information at the end of this section. See also “Using Homeopathy With Professional Guidance” in What Is Homeopathy?
This remedy can be used for flare-ups of inflammation or new injuries caused by repetitive use of the fingers and wrists. The area feels bruised and sore, and cramping may occur. External application of herbal lotion or ointment may help to ease the swelling and soreness, while other remedies are used internally.Arnica:Arnica
When this remedy is indicated, pain is felt in the bones and nerves of the wrists and arms, and stiffness and discomfort may also involve the neck. Cold and drafts often aggravate discomfort. The person may feel irritable and sensitive, or weak from overwork and pain.Calcarea phosphorica:
This remedy is useful when carpal tunnel syndrome is long-lasting or recurring. The area feels bruised, with drawing, burning pains. Stiffness and a feeling of weakness and contraction may be felt in the muscles of the hand and forearm. The condition is worse from getting cold and improved by warm applications. People who need this remedy often feel best in rainy weather.Causticum:
This remedy is indicated in carpal tunnel syndrome when the wrists (especially the left) are stiff with burning pain, and significantly relieved by applying ice or ice-cold water. Because of so much tightness, the person may feel a need to stretch the wrist, despite the pain.Guaiacum:
This remedy may be useful if sharp or shooting pains are felt extending from the wrist. is known for its soothing effect when body parts containing many nerves are injured, as well as in other traumatic nerve conditions.Hypericum:Hypericum
This remedy is useful when stiffness and pain are worse on initial motion and improve as movement continues. Overuse may lead to soreness, pain, and further stiffening. Discomfort is relieved by warmth and worse in cold, damp weather.Rhus toxicodendron:
This remedy is indicated when overuse of joints and irritation of nerves lead to tremendous stiffness. A feeling of bruising and lameness may be present, even when the wrist is allowed to rest. Weakness in the arms and wrists, especially after repetitive tasks causing wear and tear on the joints and nerves, often indicates .Ruta graveolens:Ruta
This remedy is useful for many conditions that involve the wrist and hand, especially the right. Pain and numbness may extend from the wrist through the hand and into the fingers, and the hands and arms may tremble. Symptoms are worse from getting cold.Viola odorata:
Homeopathy Dosage Directions
Select the remedy that most closely matches the symptoms. In conditions where self-treatment is appropriate, unless otherwise directed by a physician, a lower potency (6X, 6C, 12X, 12C, 30X, or 30C) should be used. In addition, instructions for use are usually printed on the label.
Many homeopathic physicians suggest that remedies be used as follows: Take one dose and wait for a response. If improvement is seen, continue to wait and let the remedy work. If improvement lags significantly or has clearly stopped, another dose may be taken. The frequency of dosage varies with the condition and the individual. Sometimes a dose may be required several times an hour; other times a dose may be indicated several times a day; and in some situations, one dose per day (or less) can be sufficient.
If no response is seen within a reasonable amount of time, select a different remedy.
For more information, including references, see What is Homeopathy? and Understanding Homeopathic Potencies.
Copyright © 2007 Healthnotes, Inc.  All rights reserved. www.healthnotes.com
Learn more about Healthnotes, the company.
Learn more about the authors of Healthnotes.
The information presented in Healthnotes is for informational purposes only. It is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or ), clinical experience, or traditional usage as cited in each article. The results reported may not necessarily occur in all individuals. For many of the conditions discussed, treatment with prescription or over the counter medication is also available. Consult your doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any supplements or before making any changes in prescribed medications. Information expires September 2008.in vitro