[] edit Early years
Neil Young was born in , , to sportswriter and novelist and (known as Rassy), who had moved to Toronto from their family home in to pursue a sport journalism career. He spent his early years in the small country town of , 130  (81 ) northeast of Toronto. Toronto Ontario Scott Young Edna Ragland Manitoba Omemee kilometres mi
Young was diagnosed with diabetes as a child and a bout of at the age of 6 left him with a weakened left side; he still walks with a slight limp. [5] polio
His parents divorced when Young was 12, and he moved with his mother back to the family home of , Manitoba, where the formative years of his music career began. Neil and his mother Rassy settled into the working class suburb of where the shy, dry-humoured youth enrolled at Earl Grey Junior High School. It was there that he formed his first band , and met , later to join him in the Squires. Winnipeg Fort Rouge the Jades Ken Koblun
While attending in Winnipeg, he played in several instrumental rock bands. Young's first stable band was called the Squires, who had a local hit called "The Sultan". Young dropped out of high school and also played in , where they recorded a series of demos produced by a local producer named Ray Dee, whom Young called "the original Briggs." While in Thunder Bay, Young first encountered . In the film Young relates how he used to spend time as a teenager at where he would endlessly plug coins into the jukebox to hear 's "". Neil also formed a friendship with musician . Kelvin High School [6] Fort William [7] Stephen Stills 2006 Heart of Gold Falcon Lake, Manitoba Ian Tyson Four Strong Winds Randy Bachman
After leaving the Squires, Neil worked folk clubs in Winnipeg, where he first met . Here he wrote some of his earliest and most enduring folk songs such as the classic "", about his lost youth. Mitchell wrote "The Circle Game" in response. Joni Mitchell [8] Sugar Mountain [] citation needed
In 1965 Young toured Canada as a solo artist. In 1966, he joined the -fronted . The band managed to secure a record deal with the label, but as their first album was being recorded, James was arrested for being from the army. After the Mynah Birds disbanded, Young and bass player relocated to . Young has admitted in an interview that he was in the United States illegally until receiving a green card in 1970. Rick James Mynah Birds Motown AWOL [9] Bruce Palmer Los Angeles [10]
[] edit Buffalo Springfield
Once they reached Los Angeles, Young and Palmer met up with , , and to form . A mixture of folk, country, , and rock lent a hard edge by the twin lead guitars of Stills and Young made Buffalo Springfield a critical success, and their first record (1967) sold well after Stills' topical song "" became a hit, aided by Young's melodic harmonics played on electric guitar. Stephen Stills Richie Furay Dewey Martin Buffalo Springfield psychedelia Buffalo Springfield For What It's Worth
Distrust of their management, as well as the arrest and deportation of Palmer, exacerbated the already strained relations among the group members and led to Buffalo Springfield's demise. A second album, , was released in late 1967, but two of Young s three contributions were solo tracks recorded apart from the rest of the group. Buffalo Springfield Again
In many ways, these three songs on are harbingers of much of Young's later work in that, although they all share deeply personal, almost idiosyncratic lyrics, they also present three very different musical approaches to the arrangement of what is essentially an original folk song. "Mr Soul" is the only Young song of the three that all five members of the group perform together. In contrast, "" was confessional folk rock of a kind that would characterize much of the music that emerged from the singer-songwriter movement. Young s experimental production intersperses each verse with snippets of sound from other sources, including opening the song with a sound bite of Dewey Martin singing "Mr. Soul" and closing it with the thumping of a heartbeat. "Expecting to Fly" was a lushly produced featuring a string arrangement that Young's co-producer for the track, , would dub "symphonic pop."Buffalo Springfield Again Broken Arrow ballad Jack Nitzsche
In May 1968, the band split up for good, but in order to fulfill a contractual obligation, a final album, , was recorded, primarily from recordings made earlier that year. Young contributed the songs "On the Way Home" and "I Am a Child", singing lead on the latter. In 1997, the band was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame; Young did not appear at the ceremony. Last Time Around
[] edit Solo success & CSNY
After the breakup of Buffalo Springfield, Young signed a solo deal with , home of his colleague and friend , with whom he shared a manager, Elliot Roberts, who manages Young to this day. Young and Nitzsche immediately began work on Young's first solo record, (November 1968), which received mixed reviews. In a 1970 interview, Young deprecated the album as being "overdubbed rather than played," and the quest for music that expresses the spontaneity of the moment has long been a feature of his career. Nevertheless, the album contains some tunes that remain a staple of his live shows, most notably "The Loner." Reprise Records Joni Mitchell Neil Young [11]
For his next album, Young recruited three musicians from a band called The Rockets: on guitar, on bass guitar, and on . These three took the name (after ), and (May 1969), is credited to "Neil Young with Crazy Horse." Recorded in just two weeks, the album opens with one of Young's most familiar songs, "Cinnamon Girl," and is dominated by two more, "Cowgirl in the Sand" and "Down by the River," that feature lengthy jams showcasing Young's idiosyncratic guitar soloing accompanied sympathetically by Crazy Horse. Young reportedly wrote all three songs on the same day, while nursing a high fever of 103 F (39.5 C) in bed. Danny Whitten Billy Talbot Ralph Molina drums Crazy Horse the historical figure of the same name Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere
Shortly after the release of , Young reunited with Stephen Stills by joining , who had already released one album as a trio. Young was originally offered a position as a sideman, but agreed to join only if he received full membership, and the group - winners of the 1969 "Best New Artist" Grammy - was renamed Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. The quartet debuted in on , , and later performed at the famous , during which Young skipped the acoustic set and refused to be filmed during the electric set, even telling the cameramen: "One of you fuckin' guys comes near me and I'm gonna fuckin' hit you with my guitar". During the making of their first album, , the musicians frequently argued, particularly Young and Stills, who both fought for control.Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere Crosby, Stills, & Nash [12] Chicago August 16 1969 Woodstock Festival [13] D j Vu [14]
"" was written following the on , , and was a staple of anti-war rallies in the 1970s. The song was quickly recorded by CSNY and immediately released as a single, even though CSNY's "Teach Your Children" was still climbing the singles charts. Many believe that the release of "Ohio" as a single cut into the sales of "Teach Your Children" and prevented that song from reaching the top ten. In the late 1970s and for much of the 1980s, Young refrained from performing "Ohio" live, as he considered the song to be dated. In the wake of the 1989 , however, Young revived the song in concert, often dedicating it to the students who were killed in the massacre. Crosby, Stills & Nash, as a trio, also returned the song to their live repertoire around the same time, even though Young had provided the lead vocals on the original recording. Ohio Kent State massacre May 4 1970 Tiananmen Square massacre Chinese
Also that year, Young released his third solo album, (1970), which featured, among others, a young , , and CSNY bassist Greg Reeves. Young also recorded some tracks with Crazy Horse, but dismissed them early in the sessions. Aided by his newfound fame with CSNY, the album was a commercial breakthrough for Young and contains some of his best known work. Notable tracks include the title track, with dream-like lyrics that run a gamut of subjects from drugs and interpersonal relationships to environmental concerns, as well as Young s controversial and acerbic condemnation of in "," which, along with a later song entitled "Alabama," later prompted to decry Young by name in the lyrics to "." Young was one of Skynyrd's biggest influences, and Young was an admirer of Skynyrd's music. The respectful rivalry and friendship between Young and Skynyrd front man would serve as a recurring theme in the ' 2001 . After the Gold Rush Nils Lofgren Stephen Stills racism Southern Man Lynyrd Skynyrd Sweet Home Alabama Ronnie Van Zant Drive-By Truckers concept album Southern Rock Opera
With CSNY splitting up and Crazy Horse having signed their own record deal, Young began the year 1971 with a solo tour entitled "Journey Through the Past." Later, he recruited a new group of country-music session musicians, whom he christened , to record much of the new material that had been premiered on tour for the album (1972). was a massive hit (especially with the country-music crowd) and "Heart of Gold" became a US number one single; incidentally, to this day it remains the only No. 1 hit in his long career. The Stray Gators Harvest Harvest
Another notable song was "," a somber lament on the pain caused by heroin addiction; inspired in part by the heavy heroin use of Crazy Horse member Danny Whitten, who would eventually die of an overdose. The Needle and the Damage Done [15]
The album's success, however, caught Young off guard, and his first instinct was to back away from stardom. In the handwritten liner notes to the compilation, Young described "Heart of Gold" as the song that "put me in the middle of the road. Traveling there soon became a bore, so I headed for the ditch. A rougher ride but I saw more interesting people there." Decade
On , , the Academy Award-nominated actress , with whom he had been living, gave birth to Neil Young's first child. The boy, Zeke, was later diagnosed with cerebral palsy. Young fell in love with Snodgress after seeing her in a movie ("Diary of a Mad Housewife") on television after which Young wrote the song "" from the Harvest album, featuring the lyric "I fell in love with the actress/she was playing a part that I could understand." September 8 1972 Carrie Snodgress A Man Needs a Maid
[] edit The Ditch Trilogy
Although a new tour had been planned to follow up on the success of , it became apparent during rehearsals that Danny Whitten could not function due to . On , 1972, shortly after he was fired from the tour preparations, Whitten was found dead of an . Young described the incident to s in 1975: "[We] were rehearsing with him and he just couldn't cut it. He couldn't remember anything. He was too out of it. Too far gone. I had to tell him to go back to L.A. 'It's not happening, man. You're not together enough.' He just said, 'I've got nowhere else to go, man. How am I gonna tell my friends?' And he split. That night the coroner called me from L.A. and told me he'd ODed. That blew my mind. Fucking blew my mind. I loved Danny. I felt responsible. And from there, I had to go right out on this huge tour of huge arenas. I was very nervous and insecure."Harvest drug abuse November 18 overdose Rolling Stone Cameron Crowe [16]
The album made in the aftermath of this incident, (1973), has often been described by Young as "my least favourite record," and it is, in fact, one of only two of Young s early recordings that has yet to be officially re-released on CD (the other being the soundtrack album ). The album was recorded live over a tour where Young struggled with his voice and called and to help perform the music. The tour featured as the opening act. occupies a unique position in Young s discography as the first of three albums known collectively as the "." Time Fades Away Journey Through the Past David Crosby Graham Nash Linda Ronstadt Time Fades Away Ditch Trilogy
In the second half of 1973, Young formed The Santa Monica Flyers, with Crazy Horse's rhythm section augmented by Nils Lofgren on guitar. Deeply affected by the drug-induced deaths of Whitten and , Young recorded . The album's dark tone and rawness caused Reprise to delay the release until two years later and only after being pressured by Young to do so. It received mixed reviews at the time, but is now regarded as a landmark album, thought by some to be a precursor to . In Young's own opinion, it was the closest he ever came to art. roadie Bruce Berry Tonight's the Night [17] punk rock [18]
While his record company delayed the release of Young recorded (1974), which dealt with themes such as the downside of fame and the Californian lifestyle. Like and , it sold poorly but eventually became a critical favourite, presenting some of Young's most original work. In a review of the 2003 re-release on CD of Derek Svennungsen described the music as "mesmerizing, harrowing, lucid, and bleary,".Tonight's the Night, On the Beach Time Fades AwayTonight's the NightOn the Beach [19]
[] edit Return to prominence
After completing , Young reunited with producer Elliot Mazer to record another acoustic album, . Most of the songs were written after Young's breakup with Snodgress, and thus the tone of the album was somewhat dark. Though the album was entirely completed, Young decided to drop the album and release instead, at the suggestion of bassist . Young further explained his move by saying: "It was a little too personal... it scared me".On the BeachHarvest Homegrown Tonight's the Night The Band Rick Danko [20] [21]
Neil Young in Austin, Texas on November 9, 1976
Young reformed Crazy Horse with on guitar as his backup band for (1975). Many of the songs are overtly concerned with failed relationships, and even the epic "," outwardly a retelling of the of from the viewpoint of the , can be seen as an allegory of love lost something that didn t save it, however, from being banned in 's . Frank Sampedro Zuma Cortez the Killer Spanish conquest Mexico Aztecs Franco Spain
The following year, Young reunited with Stephen Stills for the album (1976), credited to ; the follow-up tour was ended midway through by Young, who sent Stills a that read: "Funny how some things that start spontaneously end that way. Eat a peach, Neil." Long May You Run The Stills-Young Band telegram [22]
In 1976, Young performed with , Joni Mitchell, and other rock musicians in the high profile all-star concert . The release of 's movie of the concert was delayed while Scorsese unwillingly re-edited it to obscure the lump of cocaine that was clearly visible hanging from Young's nose during his performance of Young later said, "I'm not proud of that," according to one of his biographers. The Band The Last Waltz Martin Scorsese "Helpless." [23]
(1977) contained two songs originally recorded for album, "Homegrown" and "Star of Bethelehem," as well as newer material, including the future concert staple "". Performers included , and Young prot g along with Crazy Horse. Also in 1977, Young released : a personally selected career summary of material spanning every aspect of his various interests and affiliations, including a handful of unreleased songs. (1978) also featured Nicolette Larson and Crazy Horse and became Young's most commercially accessible album in quite some time, marked by a return to his folk roots. American Stars 'N Bars Homegrown Like A Hurricane Linda Ronstadt Emmylou Harris Nicolette Larson Decade Comes a Time
Young next set out on the lengthy "Rust Never Sleeps" tour, in which each concert was divided into a solo acoustic set and an electric set with Crazy Horse. Much of the electric set was later seen as a response to punk rock's burgeoning popularity. "Hey Hey, My My (Into the Black)" compared the changing public perception of with that of the recently deceased , who himself had once been disparaged as a dangerous influence only to later become an . Rotten, meanwhile, returned the favour by playing one of Young's records on a radio show. The accompanying albums (new material, culled from live recordings, but featuring studio overdubs) and (a mixture of old and new, and a genuine concert recording) captured the two sides of the concerts, with solo acoustic songs on side A, and fierce, uptempo, electric songs on side B. A movie version of the concerts, also called (1979), was directed by Young under the pseudonym Bernard Shakey. Johnny Rotten Elvis Presley icon London Rust Never Sleeps Live Rust Rust Never Sleeps
Young was suddenly hip again, and the readers and critics of voted him Artist Of The Year for 1979 (along with The Who), selected as Album Of The Year, and voted him Male Vocalist Of The Year as well. , meanwhile, honored Young as the Artist of the Decade. Rolling Stone Rust Never Sleeps The Village Voice
[] edit 1980s - Experimental years
The 1980s were a lean time for Young both critically and commercially. After providing the incidental music to a of entitled , he recorded (1980), a folk/country record. (1981), once again with Crazy Horse, was a fa ade of distortion and feedback obscuring a relatively weak selection of songs, but his strangest record of the decade came with (1982). Recorded partially with , , and other devices that modified instruments and vocals with electronic effects, it is sometimes considered an experiment related to finding a technology that would become a means to communicate for Young s son (with his wife Pegi), Ben, who has severe and cannot speak. Many fans were baffled by the radical forms of this album and -styled (1983), and record company head even sued Young for making "unrepresentative" music i.e. music that did not sound like Neil Young that deliberately lacked commercial appeal. Young later stated that he would have preferred to release the songs featuring the and as an EP, and that their inclusion with the Hawaiian-themed rockabilly was a mistake. Also premiered at this time though little seen was an eclectic full-length comedy film starring, co-directed and co-written by Young. biopic Hunter S. Thompson Where the Buffalo Roam Hawks & Doves Re-ac-tor Trans vocoders synthesizers cerebral palsy rockabilly Everybody's Rockin' David Geffen [24] synclavier vocoder Human Highway
In 1983, Young worked with British video director , making two videos - "Wonderin'" and "Cry, Cry, Cry." Tim Pope
In 1985, he reunited with Crosby, Stills and Nash at at Philadelphia's . The two songs that they played, "Only Love Can Break Your Heart" and "/Find The Cost of Freedom," were the first songs they had played as a quartet in front of a paying audience since 1974. Live Aid John F. Kennedy Stadium Daylight Again
(1985) saw a return to country music, recorded with a group of friends and session musicians. (1986) is entertaining for the blending of synthesizers and other instruments related to the 1980s into Young s own style, with lyrics that take pot shots at some favourite targets, including CSN in "Hippie Dream," with a chorus that goes: "But the wooden ships/Were just a hippie dream," and David Geffen in "Drifter," with the line: "Don t try to tell me what I gotta do to fit." The resumption of his partnership with Crazy Horse on (1987) fulfilled his contract with Geffen, and Young was finally able to switch labels. Old Ways Landing on Water Life
Director Pope again made a series of videos from the album, including "Touch the Night" and "People on the Street".
Signing with (which distributed Geffen at the time) and returning to Reprise Records, Young produced (1988) with a new band, The Bluenotes, whose name rights were owned by musician . Young named his band after a cafe called the Blue Note on Main Street in Winnipeg Manitoba, where he had played. The addition of a section provided a new sound and the title track became his first hit single of the decade. Accompanied by a video which parodied corporate rock, the pretensions of advertising and in particular, the song was initially banned by (although the Canadian music channel, ran it immediately) before being put into heavy rotation and finally given the for 1989. After Melvin sued over the use of the Bluenotes name, Young renamed his back-up group "Ten Men Workin'" for the balance of the concert tour. Warner Brothers This Note's For You Harold Melvin brass jazzier Michael Jackson MTV MuchMusic MTV Video Music Award for Best Video of the Year
Young also contributed to that year's CSNY reunion (1988) and CSNY played a few benefit concerts. Young, however, refused to book a full tour with CSN and the foursome would not embark upon a nationwide tour until 2000. American Dream
[] edit 1990s - Return to country-rock roots
was a mixture of acoustic and electric rock dealing with the state of the U.S. and the world in 1989, alongside a set of love songs and a version of the standard "On Broadway." "", two versions of which bookended the album, again caught the mood. Some say it became a anthem during the fall of the , a few months after the record's release. However, most Germans don't remember the song being related to the unification, understandably so, since the lyrics are not about political repression. Like 's "", the anthemic use of this song was based on largely ignoring the verses, which evoke social problems and implicitly criticize American government policies. In mid-1989, record executive conceived and produced a tribute album to Young's songs called released on his label. It featured cover versions of 15 of Young's songs by the cream of the up and coming and bands including , , , ,and . By 1990, was beginning to make its first inroads in the charts and many of its prime movers, including 's and 's , cited Young as a major influence. Freedom Rockin' in the Free World de facto Berlin Wall Bruce Springsteen Born in the U.S.A. Terry Tolkin The Bridge: A Tribute To Neil Young, No.6 Records Alternative Music Grunge music Sonic Youth Nick Cave Soul Asylum Dinosaur Jr The Pixies grunge music Nirvana Kurt Cobain Pearl Jam Eddie Vedder
Using a barn on his ranch as a studio, he rapidly recorded with Crazy Horse, whose guitar riffs and feedback driven sound showed his new admirers that he could still cut it. Young then headed back out on the road with Orange Country country-punk band and elder statesmen as support, much to the consternation of many of his old fans. Yet the influence of Sonic Youth could be clearly heard on the accompanying home video and live album, , which also included a bonus CD entitled , a single 35-minute-long collage of and guitar noise that Neil included, evidently at the suggestion of Sonic Youth's . was later sold separately. Northern California Ragged Glory Social Distortion alternative rock Sonic Youth [25] [26] Weld Arc feedback Thurston Moore [27] Arc
Young's next move was another return to country music. (1992) was the long-awaited sequel to and reunited him with some of the musicians from that session, as well as singers and . The title track was a minor hit and the record was reviewed and sold equally well, containing songs such as "From Hank to " and "Unknown Legend", a tribute to his wife. His resurgent popularity saw him booked on in 1993. In 1992 he accompanied fellow on "Prairie Town," a song that recounts their days in the Winnipeg music scene of the 1960s. That year, he contributed music to the of the movie , and his song "Philadelphia" was nominated for the , losing out to Bruce Springsteen's contribution to the same film. A summer tour covering both Europe and North America with (with whom he played two songs at a 1992 tribute concert at ) was widely praised as a triumph. On a few of these dates, the show ended with a rendition of "Rockin' in the Free World" played with . Harvest Moon Harvest Linda Ronstadt James Taylor Hendrix MTV Unplugged Winnipegger Randy Bachman soundtrack Jonathan Demme Philadelphia Academy Award for Best Song Booker T. and the MGs Bob Dylan Madison Square Garden Pearl Jam
Young was back with Crazy Horse for 1994's , a much darker record. The title track told the story of 's death; Young had reportedly made repeated attempts to contact Cobain prior to this event. Cobain had quoted Young's "It's better to burn out than fade away" (a line from "") in his alleged , causing Young to emphasize the line "'cause once you're gone you can't come back" in live performances at the time. Other songs dealt with drive-by shootings ("Driveby"), ("Piece of Crap") and Young's own vision of America (the archetypal car metaphor of "Trans Am"). Young was inspired to make the record after viewing Cobain's performance on . Still admired by the prime movers of grunge, Young eventually performed with Pearl Jam at the MTV Music Awards during what was described as the highlight of a lackluster show. Their collaboration led to a joint tour, with the band and producer backing Young. The accompanying album, (1995), recorded as live in the studio captured their loose rock sound, and featured the standout track "I'm the Ocean". The year of 1995 also featured Young's entry into the . Sleeps with Angels Kurt Cobain [28] My My, Hey Hey (Out of the Blue) suicide note environmentalism MTV Unplugged [29] Brendan O'Brien Mirror Ball Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
After composing an abstract, distorted feedback-led guitar instrumental soundtrack to 's film Young recorded a series of loose jams with Crazy Horse that eventually appeared as the critically denigrated . The return to Crazy Horse was prompted by the death of mentor, friend, and longtime in late 1995. The subsequent tours of Europe and North America in 1996 resulted in both a live album and a tour documentary directed by . Both releases took the name . Jim Jarmusch acid western Dead Man Broken Arrow producer David Briggs Jim Jarmusch Year of the Horse
In 1997, Young participated in the 's sixth annual tour. H.O.R.D.E. Festival
In 1998, Young shared the stage with the rock band at the annual concert, and later offered them an opportunity to headline both nights of the Bridge School Benefit concert. Phish took Young up on his offer to headline the Bridge School Benefit (where Young joined Phish for renditions of "Helpless" and "I Shall Be Released." Phish, however, declined Young's later invitation to be his backing band on a 1999 tour. Phish Farm Aid [30] [31]
The decade ended with , another reunion with Crosby, Stills and Nash. The subsequent tour of the United States and Canada with the reformed super quartet was a huge success and brought in earnings of $42.1 million, making it the eighth largest grossing tour of 2000. Looking Forward
Young's next album, (2000), contained a number of understated songs with personal lyrics, which was promoted through a mini-tour of solo acoustic shows. This style was continued in (2002), an album of love songs dedicated to his wife, Pegi. Silver & Gold Are You Passionate?
[] edit In the aftermath of 9/11
Young's 2001 single "", was a tribute to the victims of the , and the passengers and crew on in particular. At the "" concert he performed "". In 2002, named Neil Young in their list of the "50 Bands To See Before You Die." Let's Roll September 11, 2001 attacks Flight 93 America: A Tribute to Heroes John Lennon's Imagine Q magazine
Young hauled out his concept album , about an extended family in a small town called Greendale, and how they are torn apart by a murder, in 2003. was recorded with Crazy Horse members Billy Talbot and Ralph Molina. This tale of the Green family also resulted in a movie called , written and directed by Young (again using his "Bernard Shakey" pseudonym) and starring a few of his friends, who act out and the songs from the album. The film was indeed thoroughly experimental, from Young's rambling on-stage between-song narratives, to his reading apparent transcriptions of these ramblings in the liner notes. "When I was writing this I had no idea what I was doing, so I was just as surprised as you are," Young said later. Young toured extensively with the material throughout 2003 and 2004, first with a solo, acoustic version in Europe, then with a full-cast stage show in North America, , and . While audience reaction was sometimes mixed (drunken requests for "Southern Man" being an aesthetic impediment at most Young performances), the live stage version of Greendale was for many critics the most satisfying incarnation of the material, and bootlegs of the shows have been widely traded. The second half of each concert consisted of high-decibel renditions of Young classics such as "Hey Hey, My My," "Cinnamon Girl," "Powderfinger," and , as well as rarities such as "The Losing End," "The Old Country Waltz," and "Danger Bird." Greendale GreendaleGreendale lip sync Greendale Japan Australia Rockin' in the Free World
Young spent the latter portion of 2004 giving a series of intimate acoustic concerts in various cities with his wife, Pegi, who is a trained vocalist and guitar player.
[] edit Recent events
From left, Emmylou Harris, Neil Young and Pegi Young perform in , which offered renditions of some of Young's best-known songs.
Neil Young: Heart of Gold
On , , Young was admitted to a hospital in New York for treatment for a brain . He was treated successfully by a minimally invasive procedure. Prior to undergoing the procedure, he wrote the first eight songs of a new album, , in , with session musicians that included regular Young sideman on lap and . Two days after the procedure, Young was forced to cancel a scheduled appearance on the telecast in Winnipeg when the area where the surgeons did his procedure (via the ) suddenly began to bleed. While Young finally was able to return to Winnipeg in 2006 with Crosby, Stills and Nash, his first post-aneurysm performance was on , , at the close of the concert in . There, he debuted a new song, a soft hymn called "When God Made Me." March 31 2005 aneurysm neuroradiological Prairie Wind Nashville Ben Keith pedal steel guitars Juno Awards femoral artery July 2 2005 Live 8 Barrie, Ontario
On , , was released. In an interview given to , Young revealed that he had planned to keep the news of his aneurysm private until he had the bleeding scare, after which he decided to make news of his condition public. The last two songs on the album were written after his aneurysm procedure, and several of the songs, such as "Fallin' Off the Face of the Earth," seem to be inspired by Young's brush with , the recent death of his father, who suffered from , and Young's roots. September 28 2005 Prairie Wind Time magazine mortality senile dementia Manitoba
In 2006, , a film made by , premiered at the . Filmed over two nights at the in during the premiere of , it includes both new and old songs as well as behind-the scenes-commentary by Young, his wife Pegi, and members of Young's session band. Neil Young: Heart of Gold Jonathan Demme Sundance Film Festival Ryman Auditorium Nashville, Tennessee Prairie Wind
In April 2006, Young announced the release of , an album of protest songs that included the provocatively-titled "." Recorded using his famous electric guitar, "," along with Chad Cromwell (drums), Rick Rosas (bass), and Tommy Brea (trumpet), the album was intended to be a stinging rebuke of U.S. President and the . The album was recorded in a two week period in April, and was then made available over the internet from 28 April 2006 before being released as a CD on 5 May. was Young's most talked about release for years, creating heated political debate and a return to form with perhaps his most critically-acclaimed album since the early 1990s. , an remixed version with the original album's choral backing vocals removed, was released in December of the same year. Its accompanying DVD featured videos directed by Young of every song on the album, footage of the and demonstrations in the US, and clips from 's . Living with War Let's Impeach the President Les Paul Old Black George W. Bush War in Iraq Living With War Living With War: In the Beginning Iraq War Al Gore An Inconvenient Truth
Neil Young on the CSNY "Freedom Of Speech Tour '06"
From July through September of 2006, Neil Young reunited with his former bandmates from for the "Freedom Of Speech Tour '06" across North America. Chad Cromwell and Rick Rosas made up the band's rhythm section. The entire album was performed on the tour, in addition to other CSN and Neil Young classics such as "" and "." An accompanying concert film and live album, called , were premiered on January 25, 2008, at the Sundance Movie Festival. Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young Living with War Ohio Rockin' in the Free World CSNY Deja Vu
2006 also saw the first release from Young's long awaited project, as , a selection of songs drawn from a 1970 gig with , was released in November of that year. The release was marked as number two in the , leaving room for the still-unreleased 1969 bootleg, which will be number one in the series. In March 2007, another historical live album, marked as the third in the , was released. Titled , it featured a solo acoustic set from Toronto's Massey Hall, including material from the upcoming album. Archives Live at the Fillmore East Crazy Horse Archives Performance SeriesRiverboatPerformance Series Live at Massey Hall 1971 Harvest
On , , Young played a new album for 100 people at Reprise Records entitled . was an album he scrapped in 1977, and the name of two different bootlegs. The new album includes two long songs that time in at 18:13 ("Ordinary People") and 14:31 ("No Hidden Path"), respectively. The album consists of three songs written previously and seven new songs, all by Young. The album was released on October 23, 2007, timed to coincide with a seven-week tour that had kicked off in Boise, Idaho, ten days earlier. August 15 2007 Chrome Dreams II Chrome Dreams
On February 11, 2008, Neil Young started the European leg of his tour with a concert in , . On July 17, he was interviewed on by , where he spoke about many things, including his project to make a hybrid 1959 Lincoln. In October, a BBC 4 documentary "Neil Young - Don't be Denied" was shown, featuring interviews with Neil and a number of his contemporaries. It also summarizes his biography and motivations. Antwerp Belgium PBS Charlie Rose [32] [33]
The latest album in the Performance Series, was released on December 2, 2008. Featuring material from Young's earliest solo performances recorded in Ann Arbor, MI November 9, 1968, the album was released as number zero in the . Sugar Mountain - Live At Canterbury House 1968 Performance Series
The first installment of Young's oft-delayed box set was officially announced in 2008 with a trailer. The first set of Archives will feature both DVD and Blu-ray editions which will include 128 audio tracks (43 unreleased and 13 never before heard songs), thousands of images (photos, lyrics, letters and memorabilia), and hours of new, previously released and rare videos. Also included will be a 236 page hardbound book. The Blu-ray edition will have HD picture, pristine audio mastered and presented in 24bit 192 khz., and access to photos, trivia and memorabilia without stopping the music. It is currently scheduled for release in 2009. The Archives Vol. 1 1963-1972 [34] [35]
A Spring 2009 date has been set for Neil's new album 'A Fork in The Road', which will delay the release of the Archives until later in 2009.
Young currently lives on a 1500-acre (6 km ) ranch in , called Broken Arrow. He also owns property in , and on the islands of . La Honda, California Fort Lauderdale, Florida Hawaii
Young headlined the 2009 festival in and . Young pushed other current mainstream bands to only secondary headlining, including and . He will also headline the Friday at which has attempted to book him for many years. Although not officially confirmed, a number of sources have suggested this. Big Day Out New Zealand Australia Arctic Monkeys The Ting Tings Glastonbury Festival [36]
[] edit Influence, importance and inspiration
Neil Young has undeniably been an important artist in the history of American and Canadian popular music and remains a distinct influence upon other recording artists. s "" was written in response to two of Neil Young s songs "Southern Man" and "Alabama". "Ohio" which Young recorded with Crosby, Stills and Nash, was a recollection of the tragic events that transpired at Kent State University in May 1970. Young's willingness to be politically outspoken and socially conscious allowed him to influence such important artists such as , , and . Neil Young is referred to as "the Godfather of " because of the influence he had on and and the entire grunge movement. Kurt Cobain quoted Neil Young in his suicide note, using the line It s better to burn out, than to fade away from Young s song "My My, Hey Hey (Out Of The Blue)". Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam inducted Neil Young into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1995, citing him as a huge influence. He has also been a big influence on acts like and . Young s influence, importance and inspiration within the music scene derive in part from his longevity because of a career spanning more than four decades. His first album was released in 1966 and his latest in 2008. 's influence on Young has been so obvious that the former once lambasted: " bothered me every time it came on the radio ... and I'd say, 'Shit, that's me. If it sounds like me it might as well be me. (...) It seemed somebody else had taken my thing and had run away with it, you know, and I never got over it. Maybe tomorrow". The Dutch guitar virtuoso described a typical electric guitar solo by Young as the sound of "a Belgian " in a 1994 TV documentary, adding that it somehow became more palatable when one saw Young's grimace to accompany it . Lynyrd Skynyrd Sweet Home Alabama Phish Pearl Jam Nirvana Grunge Kurt Cobain Eddie Vedder experimental rock Sonic Youth Radiohead Bob Dylan Heart of Gold [37] Jan Akkerman vibrator [38]
The Australian rock group attribute their group name to their love of Young. Powderfinger
based band recorded a version of Neil's in ,which surfaced at the b-side the their "Our Age" 7"in November 2008. The members of the have occasionally played shows under the name Horsey Craze, singing Neil Young songs. In early 2006, they released a vinyl only split-album with The Unintended. The Constantines recorded four Neil Young songs for the LP, while The Unintended performed four Gordon Lightfoot songs. Toronto Constantines Fuckin' Up Winnipeg [39] [40] Constantines [41]
While in Winnipeg on November 2, 2008 during the Canadian leg of his tour, visited the former home of Neil Young in River Heights. The home was where Neil spent some of his teenage years. Dylan was interested in seeing the room where some of Neils first songs were composed. Bob Dylan
[] edit Achievements
Young was inducted into the in 1982. He has been inducted into the twice: first in 1995 for his solo work, with an induction speech given by , and again in 1997 as a member of Buffalo Springfield. Canadian Music Hall of Fame Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Eddie Vedder
He has also directed five movies under his pseudonym Bernard Shakey, and released them through his own Shakey Pictures imprint: (1973), (1979) (1982) (starring new wave band ), and (2003) and the documentary, (2008). The bonus included in both versions of and in are also directed by Young under the Bernard Shakey alias, and all of Young's home video and DVD releases have been co-released under the Shakey Pictures imprint. Journey Through the Past Rust Never Sleeps Human Highway Devo Greendale CSNY Deja Vu DVDs GreendalePrairie Wind
As one of the original founders of , he remains an active member of the board of directors. For one weekend each October, in , he and his wife host the , which have been drawing international talent and sell-out crowds for nearly two decades with some of the biggest names in rock having performed at the event including , , , , of , , and Sir . The concerts are a benefit for the , which develops and uses advanced technologies to aid in the instruction of children with disabilities. Young's involvement stems at least partially from the fact that both of his sons have and his daughter, like Young himself, has . Farm Aid Mountain View, California Bridge School Concerts Bruce Springsteen David Bowie The Who Red Hot Chili Peppers Trent Reznor Nine Inch Nails Pearl Jam Sonic Youth Paul McCartney Bridge School cerebral palsy epilepsy
Young was nominated for an in 1994 for his song "Philadelphia" from the film (Bruce Springsteen won the award for his song "" from the same film). In his acceptance speech, Springsteen said that "the award really deserved to be shared by the other nominee's song." That same night, accepted the Oscar for Best Actor and gave credit for his inspiration to the song "Philadelphia". Oscar Philadelphia Streets of Philadelphia Tom Hanks
He was part owner of , a company that makes toy trains and model railroad accessories. In 2008 Lionel emerged from bankruptcy and his shares of the company were wiped out. At this time his status with Lionel is unknown, according to Lionel CEO Jerry Calabrese he is still a consultant for Lionel. He was instrumental in the design of the Lionel Legacy control system for model trains and it is believed he will continue to develop the system. Young has been named as co-inventor on seven U.S. Patents related to model trains. Lionel, LLC [42] [42] [43]
Young has twice received honorary doctorates. He received an Honorary Doctorate of Music from in , in 1992, and an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from in 2006. The latter honour was shared with his wife Pegi for their creation of the Bridge School. Lakehead University Thunder Bay Ontario San Francisco State University
In a "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time" list in the June 1996 issue of , Young was ranked No. 9. Mojo magazine
In 2003, Rolling Stone listed Young at #83 in its rankings of "The 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time," describing him as a "restless experimenter...who transform[s] the most obvious music into something revelatory." [44]
In 2000, Young was inducted into . He ranked No. 39 on that same year. Canada's Walk of Fame [45] 's 100 Greatest Artist of Hard Rock VH1
In 2001, Young was awarded the Spirit of Liberty award from the civil liberties group . People for the American Way
In 2004, magazine ranked Neil Young #34 on their list of the . Rolling Stone [46] 100 Greatest Artists of All Time [47]
In 2006, Paste Magazine compiled a "Greatest Living Songwriters" list; Young was ranked No. 2 behind . (While Young and Dylan have occasionally played together in concert, they have never collaborated on a song together, or played on each others' records). Bob Dylan
In 2008, Rolling Stone ranked Young at #37 in its list of "The 100 Greatest Singers of All-Time. [48]
Jason Bond, an biologist, discovered a new species of trapdoor spider in 2007, and named it after Young, his favorite singer. East Carolina University Myrmekiaphila neilyoungi [49]