This site will work and look better in a browser that supports , but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. web standards
Students Under Age 18/Legal Minors
In exceptional circumstances, 16 and 17 year old high school students may be hired on a temporary basis for one semester at a time during the school year or one summer term at a time during the summer months only in the event that a qualified University of Connecticut student cannot be hired to fill the job opening.
University departments may hire non-UConn students after a student labor job has been advertised in the Storrs Student Employment Office for two weeks and the employer is unable to locate a qualified UConn student.
Special Restrictions for High School Students (16-17 years old)
Work Hours and Schedules:
May not work more than six (6) hours per day on a school day, and not more than eight (8) hours on any other day.
May not work more than thirty (30) hours per week (Friday-Thursday), in all jobs combined, during academic sessions.
May not work more than forty (40) hours per week, in all jobs combined, during school breaks.
May not work before the hour of 6 AM and after 10 PM on any given day.
Work Limitations:
There are limitations to the types of work which may be assigned to high school students who are under 18 years of age. Students and supervisors must speak with a the Student Employment Program staff regarding these limitations.
Application and Hiring Process:
High School students who wish for work at the School of Law must complete the forms required for all students. to apply Non-UConn
High School students who are under 18 years of age and who have been offered an on-campus job at the School of Law must present a Statement of Age, obtained from their respective high school guidance office, along with all other forms and documents required for routine student employment authorization. A is available to assist students in identifying the necessary forms. checklist
High school students anticipating employment at the University of Connecticut School of Law must receive electronic mail or telephone confirmation from the School of Law Student Employment Program Office before beginning work.
      