The Second Continental Congress voting independence.
This picture is courtesy of The National Archives NAIL Database
By Miles and Cory
During the revolutionary times, Americans from the 13 British Colonies wanted their own government and not Britain's. Because of that the Continental Congress was formed. The purpose of the Continental Congress was to direct the Revolutionary War and preserve the union formed by the 13 American colonies. The congress was made up of delegates from America.
The first Continental Congress met in Carpenters' Hall, Philadelphia, on September 5, 1774 to do something about the situation arising from the Intolerable Acts, passed by the British Parliament. About 50 delegates from 12 of the 13 colonies were represented in the first Continental Congress. Georgia was not represented. Peyton Randolph, one of the Virginia delegates, was elected president of the assembly. The congress issued a petition to George III, the king of Great Britain. The petition was called "The Declaration of Rights and Grievances." The Continental Congress also invited Canadians to join in an appeal to the king to help restore peace between Britain and the colonies.
The first Continental Congress summoned a second congress to meet in Philadelphia on May 10, 1775 if the king didn't approve of their petition. The king didn't approve of it because he wanted power over the colonies. The delegates, including Benjamin Franklin , Thomas Jefferson , and John Adams , were elected by colonial assemblies. Later, they were urged to form committees and assume governmental duties. Most of the delegates still hoped for peace with Britain, but by the end of 1775, the possibility faded. In August, the British monarch issued a proclamation to stop rebellion and sedition in the colonies. In September he hired 20,000 mercenaries to be sent to America.
The Continental Congress was the government for the United States during the American Revolution (1775-1783). The congress consisted of important historical figures in our history. They helped form the government we have now. Because Britain wasn't going to let the colonies form their own government, some people in the congress believed independence was their only alternative. It approved the resolution on July 2, 1776 and on July 4 it adopted The Declaration of Independence .
Links to other resources on the web:
at the Library of Congress