Hawaii Department of Public Safety
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Hawaii Department of Public Safety
Abbreviation
Footnotes
Division of the country, over which the agency has usual operational jurisdiction. Divisional agency:
The is a department of the government of the of , and the governing body of the State of Hawaii Sheriff's Office, which acts as the state-wide for , and has throughout the State of Hawaii.Hawaii Department of Public Safety U.S. state Hawaii law enforcement agency Hawaii jurisdiction
Contents
[] edit Administration
The Administration Division provides support services that enable corrections and law enforcement staff to fulfill their responsibilities. Some of these services include training and staff development, fiscal and personnel management, management of the operating budget and capital improvements program budget, procurement, management information systems and research. [2]
[] edit Prisons
The Corrections Division oversees four prisons. Three of the prisons are located on the island of Oahu and one on the island of Hawaii. The Mainland Section contracts with three facilities, one in Kentucky and two in Arizona, to house prisoners sentenced in Hawaii. [3] [4]
[] edit Jails
Hawaii is one of only six states in the country that operates its jails at the State level. Traditionally, jails are the responsibility of county government. The Hawaii Department of Public Safety is responsible for four jails: one on each of the islands of Oahu, Hawaii, Maui and Kauai. [3]
[] edit Law Enforcement
[] edit Narcotics Enforcement Division
The Narcotics Enforcement Division (NED) enforces laws relating to controlled substances and regulated chemicals. The NED is responsible for the registration and control of the manufacture, distribution, prescription, and dispensing of controlled substances and precursor or essential chemicals within Hawaii. [5]
[] edit Sheriff Division
Hawaii Sheriff's Patch
The Sheriff Division performs law enforcement duties statewide. The Hawaii Sheriff Division has a number of duties; transportation of detainees, service of , and other court orders, police duties at (Honolulu International Airport) and (along with the Hawaii State Harbor Police) within Hawaii, police duties at the and other state buildings (, , , and at the Department of Defense), and executive protection for the and of Hawaii and foreign dignitaries. As Hawaii is the only state without a or service, the Sheriff Division is responsible for the functions traditionally performed by these services in other states. arrest warrants writs airports harbors Hawaii State Capitol Maui Memorial Hospital Hawaii State Hospital Waimano Training School and Hospital Fort Ruger Governor Lieutenant Governor [6] state police highway patrol
K9 Services Division provides specialized canine responsible for detecting narcotics and explosives in agencies within the Judiciary, the department's correctional facilities, and other state and county agencies that request those services.
In 2007, the Sheriff Division was the first in the state to be certified with a Department of Homeland Security type III Team. Also the continued development of a Rapid Reaction Force for the State Law Enforcement Coalition(SLEC). SWAT
A Sheriff's Chaplain Corps began with one chaplain in 2004. Chaplains volunteer their time to assist in times of need. In 2009, 3 uniformed chaplains serve all sections and units within the Sheriff Division.
Deputy sheriffs serve various types of arrest warrants and other documents, and execute writs of possession. However, the majority of the subpoenas served in Hawaii are served by contracted civil process servers. Although these civilians are contracted through the Sheriff's Office, they are not Deputy Sheriffs.They also conduct criminal and civil investigations on cases that occur within the jurisdiction of State entities. They also conduct records verification and background checks.
Sheriff's Office facilities:
Headquarters - Pier 20 - Honolulu, Hawaii 96817
Honolulu International Airport Unit