Museo de las Tres Colonias undergoes transformation
By JoAn Bjarko North Forty News
All those interested in helping to preserve Fort Collins Hispanic history and culture are invited to buy a brick by Jan. 10. The pavers will go around the restored Museo de las Tres Colonias, formerly known as the Romero House and located in the Andersonville community of northeast Fort Collins.
Work continues to get the adobe home ready for a grand opening in 2006. The pavers, engraved with buyers' names or sentiments, will be placed within the area where additions to the house were removed. Cost for individuals or families is $50 for two lines of text or $75 for three lines of text, maximum of 20 characters per line. The cost for businesses is $200 for three lines of text. Checks for brick purchases should be made to the Poudre Landmarks Foundation and mailed to Museo, in care of Katherine Woods, 315 S. Sherwood St., Fort Collins, CO 80521. Those wanting more information may call Woods at 224-5418. The foundation has a goal of selling a minimum of 200.
"These bricks will be a part of history," noted Betty Aragon, a member of the project committee. "They will be there as long as the museum is there."
Esmeralda Chacon, who grew up in the neighborhood, has already provided her saying for a brick: "Mi hermosa vecindad, te guardo profundamente en mi corazon" translated "My neighborhood, I have you profoundly in my heart."
It will take eight weeks for a Denver company to cut the bricks, and they will be installed in March or April.
Income from the bricks is just one of several fund-raising activities the Poudre Landmarks Foundation is undertaking to pay for restoration and museum exhibits. A grant from the State Historical Fund is also helping to cover costs.
Purchased by the city of Fort Collins, the former home of John B. and Inez Romero is located on the corner of Romero and 10th Street. The PLF, under a long-term lease with the city, is in charge of the museum project. PLF is well known in the community for its work with the Avery House in Fort Collins and the Water Works south of LaPorte.
Wattle & Daub Contractors Inc. is heading up restoration of the Romero House. In several places, the contractors had to replace the original adobe bricks rotted by the weather with Santa Fe adobe. Contractor Byron McGough explained that there was not enough time to make new adobe bricks on site because they would take too long to cure, but the Santa Fe adobe is very similar in composition.
Also under way are efforts to raise about $40,000 for the exhibits. Ideas include wall panels that look like part of the wall from a distance but open to expose an interpretive panel. There may be boxes, such as a trunk at the foot of the bed. When opened, museum visitors will discover exciting objects and devices that tell a story about Hispanic culture.
The committee is also compiling oral histories and so far have interviewed Frank and Lillian Martinez, Velentine Melendrez, Rose Cordova, Lawrence Olivas, Louis Trujillo, the Romero family and Maury Albertson.
Do you have a news tip? Do you have questions about a news story? Please contact our staff by phone (970-221-0213) or . e-mail