 
 
Wildflowerswedding cakes are edible custom works of art masterfully decorated with exquisite hand painted sugar flowers, berries, leaves and ribbons creating something so exquisite and charming they will take your breath away..
 
 
Fresh farm butter, Belgian chocolate, imported liqueurs, fragrant pecans and seasonal berries merge with truly original recipes that bring about a combination of flavors and freshness that set my cakes apart.  They are moist, delicious and available in a wide variety of flavors and fillings .  Exclusive cakes baked to perfection made according to the time respected methods of the fine patissier. Filled with a buttercream made with a French meringue, special cooked sugar syrup and whipped butter, bourbon chocolate truffle, or an exquisite French lemon cream, just to name a few. 
 
Pure ambrosia.
 
Wedding cakes are covered in buttercream, rolled fondant, fondant lace, or in white or dark chocolate to create the perfect canvas for the beauty of your wedding cake to unfold.  
 
Wedding cakes are priced from $12.00 a serving. 
 
 
 
A rich cake covered in imported chocolate with sugar flowers, fresh figs, apricots, rosemary & sage. This cake is an example where I've used fresh fruits & herbs in combination with sugar flowers for a decidedly unique approach.
 
 
 
Selected by the editors of Bride's Magazine as one of America's 50 most beautiful cakes in 2008, this four tier sage green rolled fondant cake is exquisitely decorated in the style of the French Milles Fleurs. A gros grain finish to the fondant creates a soft, gentle texture which is accented with peaches, tiny pears, apple blossoms, leaves and berries hand made out of sugar. 
 
 
 
This cake is an example of a cascade created using intensely colored sugar flowers, foliage and fruits.  The front of the cake has a full cascade, however the reverse side of the cake has a modified cascade.  This combination gives the wedding cake visual symmetry from all angles of view.
 
 
 
La joie de vivre! A fanciful and fabulous New Orleans inspired chocolate rolled fondant wedding cake.  All of the playful yet elegant nuances of the French influence are captured here from the elaborate colorful brush embroidery to the intensely colored sugar roses, parrot tulips, fruits and berries. 
 