Anemia. by Melting Mama
I went today for a prenatal appointment. Doc comes in, announces that he won't bother looking for a heartbeat via doppler because we won't find it - and he doesn't want to make me "nervous" if he can't find it. I assure him that I'm okay with that, it's only ten weeks, I have never heard a fetal heart beat this early from a doppler anyw ... Read on »
Drugs for Anemia by Well Med
Here is a list of drugs and medications that are commonly prescribed to treat Anemia: Epoetin Erythropoietin Ferrous sulfate Hydrea Procrit Vitamin b-12 These are just some of the drugs and medications that are often used to treat Anemia.If you're interested in finding more information, tips, news and videos about Anemia, go to the Anemia Wel ... Read on »
Treatments for Anemia by Med RX
Here is a list of treatments and procedures that are commonly used to treat Anemia: Blood Transfusion Blood transfusions Bone Marrow Transplant Copper EPO injections Folic acid supplements Healthy diet High-iron diet Intravenous iron Iron Iron supplements Splenectomy These are just some of the treatments and procedures that are used to ... Read on »
The Anemia Legacy by Matt M.
Anemia continues to affect millions of people around the world despite increasing availability of iron. This presents a puzzle of sorts, as to why this conditon would continue despite an obvious and relatively cheap solution of iron supplementation.A new study looks at anemia from an evolutionary perspective and provides some answers. The authors ... Read on »
Tests & Diagnostics for Anemia by Docs Orders
Here is a list of some of the common tests and diagnostics for Anemia: Adrenal Function Anemia Blood Count Bone Marrow Test Calcium Deficiency Complete Blood Count Fatigue Related HIV Thyroid Function TSH Of course, these are just some of the common tests and diagnostics for Anemia.You can connect with experts and other people who ... Read on »
Herbal and Natural Remedies for Anemia by Get Healthy
Here is a list of some of the common herbal and natural treatments and remedies for Anemia: Ferrous sulfate Folate Iron supplement Vitamin b12 Vitamin b12 supplements Vitamin b6 Of course, these are just some of the common herbal and natural treatments and remedies for Anemia.You can connect with experts and other people who have Anemiain the ... Read on »
Signs & Symptoms of Anemia by Be Well
Here is a list of some of the common signs and symptoms of Anemia: Anemia Breathing difficulty Brittle nails Concave nails Difficulty standing Difficulty swallowing Dizziness Enlarged spleen Fatigue Husky voice Increased heart rate Jaundice Low blood pressure Low iron Paleness Pallor Poor appetite Rapid breathing Rapid pulse Shor ... Read on »
1-10