search the site
You must have a installed on your computer to read the documents that are listed on this page.  The latest version of Adobe Acrobat Reader® is free at the .version number or 4.0 or later of Adobe Acrobat Reader® Adobe web site
Vehicle and Traffic Law
How can I get a copy of the NYS Vehicle and Traffic Law?
The Vehicle and Traffic Law is available as a book from the DMV for $3.50 per copy.  Complete (Request for Driver and/or Vehicle Record Information), and check the box for Vehicle and Traffic Law books in Step 2, Part A. Pay the fee with a check or money order payable to "Commissioner of Motor Vehicles". Send the form and fee to the address on the form. form MV-15
The NYS Legislature maintains a web site that has the text of the Laws of New York State. Open and locate the Vehicle and Traffic Law (VAT) in the alphabetical laws list. the Consolidated Laws page
DMV Regulations
The NYS Department of State is required to maintain on-line the complete New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (NYCRR). This includes The Regulations of the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles (NYCRR Title 15). The NYCRR is available through . the website of the NYS Department of State
Copies of specific DMV regulations can be downloaded from . The DMV web site also has . the business forms section of the DMV forms page a Small Business Regulation Guide for the DMV Motor Vehicle Inspection Regulations (Part 79)
DMV Regulatory Agenda
The DMV Regulatory Agenda is a list of Regulations that the DMV plans to change during the year 2008. NYS law the DMV on the Regulatory Agenda. The document lists changes that the DMV has considered, but the document can be amended if there are changes in law or in the requirements of the DMV.does not requireto make all of the proposed changes
The DMV can recommend and make changes to the regulations that in the current Regulatory Agenda. The DMV will update the regulatory Agenda as other proposed changes are considered.do not appear
See . the DMV Regulatory Agenda for 2008
Text of Proposed DMV Regulation Changes for Comment
You can read that are listed in the table below.  You can send your comments about the proposed changes to the DMV.  Make sure that you submit your comments no later than the date listed next to the subject of the proposed change.the text of the proposed changes to the DMV Regulations
This page to the DMV Regulations.  Visit the web site of the NYS Department of State to learn .does not list every proposed change how to find other proposed changes to the regulations of NYS agencies
.Currently, there are no proposed changes to DMV regulations that require comments
Opinions of DMV Counsel