Diplomatic representation of the U.S. in South Africa. Embassy of the United States in Pretoria, South Africa
Overview, country strategy, EU support, and documents on the European Union's relations with South Africa. EU Relations with South Africa
The G-20 is a group of 19 of the world's largest economies and the European Union. The G-20 is an informal forum that promotes open and constructive discussion between industrial and emerging-market countries on key issues related to global economic stability. Group of Twenty (G-20)
The Group of 77 is an intergovernmental organization of developing states in the UN. It provides the means for the countries of the South to articulate and promote their collective economic interests and enhance their joint negotiating capacity on all major international economic issues within the United Nations system, and promote South-South cooperation for development. There are now 130 member states (including South Africa), although the name G-77 was retained because of its historical significance. G-77 at the United Nations
Website of member state missions and their representatives to the United Nations. Permanent Mission of South Africa to the United Nations
ReliefWeb, administered by the , provides news, documents, maps, and background information on emergency assistance by country. ReliefWeb - South Africa
SACU - South Africa
The Southern African Customs Union (SACU) five Member States are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland. It was established through the Customs Union Agreement of 1910.promotes the improvement of economic development through regional integration, trade between member states, and trade negotiations between SACU and third parties. The
SADC is an intergovernmental organization. that promotes economic well-being, improvement of the standards of living and quality of life, freedom and social justice, and peace and security among the 14 southern African member states. Southern African Development Community (SADC) - South Africa
News, operations, statistics, background, analysis and policy, and maps from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. UNHCR - South Africa
UNDP helps countries work toward human rights, democratic governance, poverty reduction, crisis prevention and recovery, energy and environment for sustainable development, and HIV/AIDS prevention. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in South Africa
Economic, social and environmental policies and plans for sustainable development from the UN Department Economic and Social Affairs. United Nations Division for Sustainable Development - South Africa
UN Country Team in South Africa. United Nations South Africa
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) economic and humanitarian assistance programs in South Africa. USAID - South Africa
U.S.-South African relations, humanitarian assistance, reconstruction, and country background notes. U.S. Department of State - South Africa
World Bank data, projects, and research in South Africa. World Bank - South Africa
Provides key information on trade statistics, WTO commitments, disputes, trade policy reviews, and notifications for member countries. World Trade Organization - South Africa
Health
Country situation analysis and news from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. UNAIDS - South Africa
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) HIV/AIDS programs in South Africa. USAID Health: HIV/AIDS - South Africa
Information and statistics on the status of public health in South Africa from the World Health Organization (WHO). WHO - South Africa
Official site of the World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa (WHO/AFRO).  WHO/AFRO