8670 W. State 56 French Lick, Indiana 47432
Opening date
1875: Steakhouse, The Power Plant, Diamond Jim's Trattoria, Sinclair's Fine Dining
Casino type
[] edit Casino
The casino opened for business on November 3, 2006 after a gaming license originally intended for was transferred to French Lick. Honoring state law allowing only water-based gaming, it was originally designed as a riverboat and surrounded by a small pond (commonly nicknamed the Boat in the Moat). In 2008 the moat was filled in and the casino boat was converted into the state's first land-based casino. Patoka Lake [1]
The casino features more than 1,300 , and table games including , , , and . However, the French Lick property continues to lag Indiana's 10 other casinos in every significant category including admissions, gross revenues and the average amount it wins from patrons at each slot machine and table game chair, state figures show. slot machines blackjack craps roulette poker
[] edit French Lick Springs Hotel
Pluto Spring at the in
French Lick Resort Casino French Lick, Indiana
The location was originally known as the , a grand resort that catered to those who came to partake of the advertised healing properties of the town's . The first hotel was opened in 1845 and was an immediate success. The original hotel burned in 1897, but the resort was rebuilt on an even grander scale by new owner , mayor of and chair of the . He convinced the to build a spur directly to the hotel grounds with daily passenger service to . The rich and famous were guests during the heyday of the resort, including (who announced his candidacy for president at the 1931 national Governors conference there), and numerous others. Casino gambling, though technically illegal, flourished near the resort (but not at the resort proper). The spring water known as was bottled at a plant across the street from the hotel for use on the property and for commercial distribution. is said to have been served for the first time at the hotel in 1917 when the chef Louis Perrin ran out of orange juice and needed an alternative.French Lick Springs Hotel sulfur springs Thomas Taggart Indianapolis Democratic National Committee Monon Railroad Chicago Franklin D. Roosevelt Ronald Reagan Pluto Water Tomato juice
The resort went into a steady decline with the , enjoyed a brief revival during , then went into decline again, particularly after the illegal casinos were shuttered by action of Indiana Governor in 1949. The property went through a procession of owners, some of whom attempted to return the resort to its former glory. National Conventions of the fraternity were held at the hotel in 1940, 1953, and 1968. Great Depression World War II Henry Schricker Phi Kappa Tau
Revival in earnest came when, after considerable campaigning by local residents, Indiana gaming authorities finally awarded a long-promised license for a riverboat casino to the city. The new casino was a bit slow to get into the water, after businessman was granted the original operating license, only to have it withdrawn for a variety of reasons. The license was finally awarded to a partnership of business interests from within Indiana including billionaire . Cook later bought out the partners after a legal dispute. Donald Trump Bill Cook
The building is listed on the and is recognized as one of the by the . National Register of Historic Places Historic Hotels of America National Trust for Historic Preservation
[] edit West Baden Springs Hotel
The historic 246-room luxury in the adjacent town a mile away is also part of the Casino Resort complex. The hotel was built in 1902 and held the title of the in the world until 1913. It remained the largest dome in the United States until the opened in 1965. The hotel was listed on the in 1974, became a in 1987 and is a . In 2008 the West Baden Springs Hotel was cited by readers as one of the best mainland U.S. resorts. West Baden Springs Hotel largest free-spanning dome Houston Astrodome National Register of Historic Places National Historic Landmark Historic Civil Engineering Landmark Cond Nast Traveler [2]
[] edit Golf Courses
A golf course known as the Hill Course was added in 1917 and was designed by . It hosted the 1924 won by and also has hosted the 1959 and 1960 and was the home of the Midwest Amateur from the 1930s through the 1950s. captured the 1957 Midwest Amateur on the course. In 2006-7 the course was restored to its original specifications in cooperation with the Donald Ross Society. The PGA will return to French Lick in June 2010 for the . Donald Ross PGA Championship Walter Hagen LPGA Championship Pete Dye PGA Professional National Championship
The Valley Links adjacent to the hotel and casino was originally designed as an 18-hole course by and has been altered to become a 9-hole course as a result of the casino construction. Tom Bendelow
A new course designed by Pete Dye has recently been completed. Mount Airie, Tom Taggart's 1928 Colonial-style home, located on the second highest point in the state has been purchased to serve as a guest house overlooking the course.
[] edit Notes
^