Why You Face More Problems With Weight Loss
The World's First and Most Comprehensive Resource Dedicated to Weight Loss for Women Over 40!
Why Do Women Over 40 Face More Problems With Weight Loss?
Do you feel that your quest to lose weight is like an uphill battle?
Remember how when you were younger, you had a couple of tricks which you could use whenever you wanted to lose a couple of pounds quickly?  Unfortunately, those tricks don't seem to work anymore, do they?
And as the weeks and months go by, you seem to continue to add even more pounds to your weight... even if you didn't make any changes to your eating habits or your level of physical activity!  
Does that sound like you?
On some days, this really makes you want to pull your hair out, doesn't it?  
We understand your frustration.  And we're here to do our very best to help you to free yourselves from this struggle.  But before you can learn specific methods for women over 40 to lose weight, you first need to understand you have more difficulty losing weight compared to younger women.why
So, why do you have more difficulty?
You Have a Slower Metabolism...
Starting at about the age of 30, your metabolism starts to slow down.  This is a natural process and from then on, your body burns energy about 2 to 4 percent slower every ten years.  So compared to yourself when you were younger, you are now burning fewer calories every day, and more of what you eat are being stored as fat.
It's no wonder then that even if you continue to eat and exercise the same amount, you'll still continue to put on the extra pounds as you age!
The good news is that this is something you can overcome.  Please visit our other section to learn . why your metabolism slows down as you age, and what you can do starting today to increase your metabolism
You Have Hormone Imbalance...
Women over 40 (and some even earlier) may start having trouble sleeping at night, or their headaches become more regular and more intense, and they have weight gain that is hard to control.  While many may think these things are just part of life, they are actually symptoms of the hormonal changes during menopause.  More specifically, these things may be symptoms of progesterone deficiency or estrogen dominance.  Hormone imbalances, particularly deficiencies in progesterone, are linked to many conditions faced by women over 40 such as osteoporosis, insomnia, and weight gain.
Women in their peri-menstrual (pre-menopausal, menopausal, post-menopausal) years need extra dietary considerations because of all of the hormonal changes going on within their bodies.  What works for them at twenty years of age doesn't necessarily work from forty to fifty.
Statistics published in the Journal of the American Medical Association show that there are more adult women who are obese (33 percent) than adult obese men (28 percent).  This significant 5 percent difference may be largely due to the role of hormones in a woman's weight.  Now if you add to that the fact that during menopause a woman's hormones are very unstable, you can see how it becomes even more difficult to control weight during this time.
Again, the good news is that you can do something about this.  To learn more about what is hormone imbalance, how estrogen dominance affects you and your weight, and what you can do to correct the effects of hormone imbalance, please visit our section. hormone imbalance and estrogen dominance
 
Main Menu
It's not just plain coincidence that women over 40 face more problems than younger women when it comes to weight loss.  Before you learn the weight loss methods that work for you, find out what makes you different and why you face more problems when you're trying to lose weight...   Why Face More Problems
Your body's metabolism rate naturally slows down as you age. This means your body is less efficient at "burning" fat now than it was when you were younger, causing you to put on the pounds as a result. Learn why this is so, and what you can do to increase metabolism... Slower Metabolism
You've just had a decent lunch not too long ago, and you know you shouldn't be eating too much sweet stuff... but why is it that all you can think of is that plate of pasta and another slice of the delicious chocolate cake? Here's why you keep getting those food cravings, and how you can get rid of the cravings and feel full throughout the day... Food Cravings
You tell yourself that you're going to start on a weight loss routine, but find that throughout the entire process your body seems to have a mind of its own -- it just doesn't listen to you and the body fat keeps increasing! For many women over 40, it may be that you're suffering from hormone imbalance or estrogen dominance. Find out how estrogen dominance causes weight gain, and learn some safe and simple solutions you can use immediately... Hormone Imbalance, Hormonal Changes and Mood Swings
If you managed to lose some weight but then found yourself stuck at the same weight for some time, you've hit the dreaded "weight loss plateau". Find out what causes this, and what you can do to overcome weight loss plateaus easily. Plateaus
Did you know that instead of helping you to lose weight, diets can in fact make you put on even more weight?  Before you go on your next diet, read this to learn how diets can actually do you more harm than good! Why Diets Don't Work
What is progesterone? Why is there so much interest in natural progesterone now? But more importantly, find out how natural progesterone can help you in weight loss... Progesterone
You probably know that fiber helps to regulate bowel movements, but do you know that fiber also helps with weight loss? Fiber
If you aren't burning fat effectively, the fat will build up and get stored in your body. L-Carnitine helps in your body's fat burning activities, and it makes exercise less of a pain... L-Carnitine
Chromium reduces insulin insensitivity, so it helps to prevent excess glucose being converted into fat. Learn how chromium picolinate can help you gain more lean body mass and decrease your amount of body fat... Chromium Picolinate
When you consume too much carbohydrates, the extra carbohydrates are then converted into body fat. Discover how garcinia cambogia can help you to suppress your appetite and inhibit fat production so that less fat gets stored in your body... Garcinia Cambogia
Have you ever dreamt of losing weight while you sleep?  I've got good news for you...  Sleeping can help you in your weight loss program! Sleep and Lose Weight?
Here are some other useful articles that can help you attain your weight loss success... Weight Loss Articles
Want to know how the latest happenings in the weight loss industry can affect you?  Is there something new in the market that can speed up your fat loss program?  If I find out anything worth reporting to you, it'll be in my blog.  Go check it out! Weight Loss for Women Over 40 Blog
 
Email us at and we'll do our best to answer any questions you have... We're here to help!Got a question on weight loss for women over 40?
Main Menu