History
Four sackbuts: two tenors, alto, bass
Until the early eighteenth century, the trombone was called the sackbut in English, a word with various different spellings ranging from to and derived from the Spanish or French . The sackbut was built in slightly smaller dimensions than modern trombones, and had a bell that was more conical and less flared. Today, is generally used to refer to the earlier form of the instrument, commonly used in early-music ensembles. Sackbuts were (and still are) made in every size from soprano to contrabass, though, then as now, the contrabass was very rare.sackbutshagboltsacabuchesacqueboutesackbut
Renaissance and Baroque periods
The trombone was used frequently in sixteenth century in canzonas, , and ecclesiastical works by and his nephew , and also later by in Germany. While the trombone was used continuously in church music and in some other settings from the time of (c. 1640) onwards, it remained rather rare in the concert hall until the nineteenth century. Venice sonatas Andrea Gabrieli Giovanni Gabrieli Heinrich Sch tz Claudio Monteverdi
During the , and used the trombone on a few occasions. Bach used it in combination with the cornett to evoke the in some of his many and Handel used it in and all of which were examples of a new style popular during the early eighteenth century. Baroque period Johann Sebastian Bach George Frideric Handel stile antico cantatas Saul,Samson,Israel in Egypt, oratorio
Classical period
The repertoire of trombone solo and has its beginnings in in the Classical Era where composers such as Leopold Mozart, Georg Christoph Wagenseil, Johann Albrechtsberger, and Johann Ernst Eberlin were featuring the instrument, often in partnership with a voice. and used trombones in a number of their sacred works, including two extended duets with voice from Mozart, the best known being in the of his . The inspiration for many of these works was no doubt the virtuosic playing of Thomas Gschladt who worked in the court orchestra at . When his playing faded, so did the general composing output for the instrument. chamber literature Austria Joseph Haydn Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Tuba MirumRequiem Salzburg
The trombone retained its traditional associations with the opera house and the church during the eighteenth century and was usually employed in the usual alto/tenor/bass trio to support the lower voices of the chorus. However, Viennese court orchestra Johann Joseph Fux rejected an application from a bass trombonist in 1726 and restricted the use of trombones to alto and tenor only. This remained the case almost until the turn of the nineteenth century in , after which time a second tenor trombone was added when necessary. The construction of the trombone changed relatively little between the and Classical period with the most obvious feature being the slightly more flared bell than was previously the custom.kapellmeister Vienna Baroque period
The first use of the trombone in a was Swedish composer Joachim Nikolas Eggert in his in 1807. The composer usually credited with its introduction into the symphony orchestra, however, is , who used it in the last movement of his (1808). Beethoven also used trombones in his and . symphony Symphony in E-flat Ludwig van Beethoven Symphony No. 5 in C minorSymphony No. 6 in F major ("Pastoral")Symphony No. 9 ("Choral")
Romantic period
Leipzig became a center of trombone pedagogy. It began to be taught at the new founded by . Mendelssohn's bass trombonist, Karl Traugott Queisser, was the first in a long line of distinguished professors of trombone at the academy in Leipzig and several composers penned works for him, including Ferdinand David (Mendelssohn's concertmaster), Ernst Sachse and Friedrich August Belcke, whose solo works all remain popular today in Germany. Queisser almost single-handedly helped to reestablish the reputation of the trombone in Germany and began a tradition in trombone playing that is still practiced there today.musikhochschule Felix Mendelssohn
's was the first major Romantic in which trombones were given a prominent solo part.
Franz Schubert 9th Symphony symphony
Queisser also championed and popularized Christian Friedrich Sattler's new tenorbass trombone during the 1840s, leading to its widespread use in throughout Germany and . Sattler introduced a significant widening of the bore (the most important since the ), the innovations of (snake decorations), the bell garland and the wide bell flare, all of which are features that are still to be found on German-made trombones today and were widely copied during the nineteenth century. orchestras Austria Renaissance schlangenverzierungen
Many were directly influenced by 's use of trombones, and the nineteenth century saw the trombones become fully integrated in the . This trend was particularly evident by the 1840s, as composers such as , Franz Berwald, , , Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy, Richard Wagner, , , , , , , , , Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, , , , Charles Gounod, C sar Franck, , , and many others included trombones in their , symphonies and other orchestral compositions. composers Beethoven orchestra Franz Schubert Johannes Brahms Robert Schumann Hector Berlioz Gioacchino Rossini Giuseppe Verdi Giacomo Puccini Franz Liszt Richard Strauss Anton Bruckner Gustav Mahler Alexander Borodin BedYich Smetana Anton n DvoY k Claude Debussy Camille Saint-Sa ns operas
Schubert's (first movement) is considered the first in which the trombone section is given a prominent solo part. of the Romantic era utilized the smaller bore, higher timbre alto trombone, tenor trombone and bass trombone in their brass compliment. As a result wrote the trombone parts in alto, tenor and bass clefs respectively.9th Symphony symphony Orchestras composers
Then in late nineteenth century brass sections in general and the trombone in particular became more important in the orchestral palette of composers. Richard Wagner utilized the rarely used contra-bass trombone in several of his . Mahler's includes an extended trombone solo in the opening movement and Ravel's also features a significant solo passage. The final episode of Mahler's features a trombone quartet intoning a mournful, dirge-like hymn that leads to the shattering final . operas 3rd SymphonyBolero6th Symphony chord
The late nineteenth century saw the erosion of the traditional alto/tenor/bass trombone trio in the . While the alto/tenor/bass trombone trio had been paired with one or two cornetts during the and early periods, the disappearance of the cornett as a partner and eventual replacement by oboe and clarinet did not fundamentally alter the for the trombones, which was to support the alto, tenor and bass voices of the chorus (typically in an ecclesiastical setting), whose harmonic moving lines were more difficult to pick out than the melodic soprano line. The introduction of the trombones into the orchestra, however, allied them more closely with the trumpets and it did not take long for the alto and bass trombones to be replaced by tenor trombones, although the Germans and Austrians held on to the alto trombone and F or E-flat bass trombone somewhat longer than the French, who came to prefer a section of three tenor trombones until after the . orchestra Renaissance Baroque raison d' tre Second World War
Twentieth century
In the twentieth century the trombone maintained its important position in the orchestra with prominent parts in works by , , , , , , , , , , , , , Gustav Holst, , , William Walton, , , Leoa Jan ek, George Gershwin, , , and . Richard Strauss Gustav Mahler Arnold Schoenberg Alban Berg Maurice Ravel Darius Milhaud Olivier Messiaen Igor Stravinsky Dmitri Shostakovich Sergei Rachmaninov Sergei Prokofiev Ottorino Respighi Edward Elgar Ralph Vaughan Williams Benjamin Britten Jean Sibelius Carl Nielsen Aaron Copland Leonard Bernstein B la Bart k
Salsa pioneer Willie Colon.
In the second half of the century, new composers began giving back to the trombone a level of importance in solo and chamber music. Pieces such as Edgard Var se's 's and 's led the way for lesser-known composers to build a wider repertoire. Popular choices for recital music today include Stjepan Sulek's Jacques Caster de's and Jean Michel Defaye's . The best known trombone concertos from this period include works by Derek Bourgeois, Lars-Erik Larsson, Launy Gr ndahl, Jan Sandstr m, and Gordon Jacob.Octandre, Paul Hindemith Sonata Luciano Berio Sequenza VVox Gabrieli,SonatineDeux Danses
Numerous changes in construction have occurred during the twentieth century, including the use of different materials, increases in mouthpiece, bore and bell dimensions, new valve types and different mute types.
Today, the trombone can usually be found in wind ensembles/concert bands, , , , brass bands, brass choirs, and so on. It can be part of smaller groups as well, such as brass quintets, quartets, or trios, or trombone trios, quartets, or choirs (though the size of a trombone choir can vary greatly from five or six to twenty or more members). symphony orchestras marching bands military bands
Trombones are also common in swing, , jazz, salsa, rock, , and ska music, though it is in jazz and swing music that it has arguably made the greatest advances since the turn of the twentieth century with famous artists such as Ray Anderson, Tommy Dorsey, Delfeayo Marsalis, Miff Mole, Joe Nanton, Buddy Morrow, Louis Satterfield, Reggie Young, Carl Fontana, Curtis Fuller, Wycliffe Gordon, Urbie Green, Al Grey, Ted Heath, Conrad Herwig, J. J. Johnson, Don Lusher, Albert Mangelsdorff, , Kid Ory, Frank Rosolino, Frank Rehak, Steve Swell, Jack Teagarden, Bill Watrous, Ron Westray, Kai Winding, and Trummy Young. The Big Bands of trombonists Glenn Miller and Tommy Dorsey were arguably the most famous bands of the era. Dixieland R&B Glenn Miller Swing
Trombone virtuoso Arthur Pryor was a key figure in the great band of American icon . The instrument was immortalized in Meredeth Wilson's Broadway musical, in the song . music John Philip Sousa The Music Man,76 Trombones
In rock music, the trombone has often been used in the brass sections and arrangements of Paul Simon, Chicago, Blood, Sweat and Tears, the Buckinghams, Toto, the , and as well as numerous Motown and arrangements by artists such as by Kool and the Gang, Diana Ross, and Earth Wind and Fire. The Beatles Frank Zappa R & B
Technique
As with all brass instruments, progressive tightening of the lips and increased air pressure allow the player to move to a different partial in the harmonic series. In the first or closed position on a B-flat trombone, the notes in the harmonic series begin with the pedal or fundamental B-flat1, followed by B-flat2 (one octave higher), F3 (a perfect fifth higher), B-flat3 (a perfect fourth higher), D4 (a major third higher), F4 (a minor third higher), A-flat4 (a minor third higher; this note is always flat and is not usually played in this position, though it has been the practice in Germany and Austria to do so), B-flat4 (a major second higher), C5 (a major second higher), D5 (a major second higher), E-flat (a minor second higher, but very sharp), F5 (a major second higher). Very skilled players can go higher than this, to G5, A-flat5, A5 and B-flat5.
In the lower range, significant movement of the slide is required between positions, which becomes more exaggerated on lower pitched trombones, but for higher notes the player need only use the first four positions of the slide since the partials are closer together, allowing higher notes to be played in alternate positions. As an example, F4 (at the bottom of the treble clef) may be played in both first, fourth and sixth positions on a B-flat trombone. The note E1 (or the lowest E on a standard 88-key piano keyboard) is the lowest attainable note on a 9' B flat tenor trombone, requiring a full 2.24 m of tubing. On trombones without an F attachment, there is a gap between B-flat1 (the fundamental in first position) and E2 (the first harmonic in seventh position). Skilled players can produce so-called "falset" notes between these, but the sound is relatively weak and not usually used in performance.
Brass bands
Musician on left with slide trombone; on right with valve trombone.
In brass band music, the trombone is treated like all the other members (except the bass trombone) as a transposing instrument in B-flat and reads the treble clef. This puts the notes in exactly the same staff position as they would be if the music were written in a (non-transposing) tenor clef, though the key signature must be adjusted. This is no mere coincidence, for brass bands used to employ a section of alto, tenor and bass trombones in the early to mid-nineteenth century, later replacing the alto with a tenor trombone, all the while notated in the corresponding clefs. Eventually a decision was taken in the early twentieth century to replace the tenor clef with the transposing B-flat treble clef in order to aid new starters to integrate more quickly and effectively into the brass band, though the bass trombone, then in G, remained (and is still) notated in concert pitch bass clef. (Company bands used the B-flat treble clef notation for many instruments in the band to allow players to more easily switch instruments when personnel changed.) An accomplished performer today is expected to be proficient in reading parts notated in bass clef, tenor clef, alto clef, and (more rarely) treble clef in C, with the British brass band performer expected to handle treble clef in B-flat as well.
Construction