[] edit Early years
Owen (he preferred to be known by his middle name) Brewster was born in , the son of William Edmund Brewster, a member of the , and Carrie S. Bridges. He graduated from in 1909, a member of the and . From 1909 to 1910, Brewster was the principal of Castine High School, and then attended , graduating in 1913. Dexter, Maine Maine House of Representatives summa cum laude Bowdoin College Phi Beta Kappa Society Delta Kappa Epsilon Harvard Law School
[] edit Early political career
In 1915, he married Dorothy Foss; from 1915 to 1923, he was a member of the Portland School Committee. From 1914 to 1925, Brewster was a lawyer for the Chapman and Brewster in . He was elected to a two-year term as a member of the (1917 18), but resigned to enlist in the (Third Infantry unit of the Maine National Guard) when the nation entered . Brewster served successively as , , , and regimental adjutant, and returned to the State House after the war ended. He continued to be a state House member from 1921 to 1922, when he was elected to the . law firm Portland Maine House of Representatives U.S. Army World War I private second lieutenant captain Maine Senate
Brewster served in the State Senate until 1925, when he became the . Brewster served two terms as Governor, leaving office in 1929, losing the Republican nomination for a third term. In 1932, he was defeated for a seat in the , but was elected from the Third District in 1935 and served until 1941, when he went on to the . Brewster was re-elected in 1946. Governor of Maine U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate
[] edit Congressional career
During his time in Congress, Brewster worked on legislation to provide old-age pensions (the forerunner of Social Security) although he was a prominent opponent of welfare and spending programs in . As Senator, Brewster sat on several Senate committees, notably the Special Senate Committee to Investigate the National Defense Program (the Truman Committee), and the Joint Committee to Investigate the Pearl Harbor Attack. At the time these were very high profile and Brewster's work on those committees did much to raise his profile in Washington. President Roosevelt's New Deal
In the Senate, he was good friends with of . His association with eroded Brewster's political support as McCarthy's excesses became increasingly unpopular. His association with the also cost him support in Republican circles. Joseph McCarthy Wisconsin McCarthyism anti-communist Ku Klux Klan liberal
[] edit Opposition to Howard Hughes
Brewster came to national attention due to his opposition to the commercial interests of , America's wealthiest person at the time. Brewster was chairman of a special Senate committee investigating defense procurement during . He claimed concern that Hughes had received $40 million from the without actually delivering the aircraft he had contracted to provide, but Brewster may have had an ulterior motive. Incidentally, Hughes stated that the H-4 Hercules cost far more, with the balance coming from his own funds. Howard Hughes World War II Defense Department
Hughes aggressively combated the inquirer, alleging corruption. Memoirs by Hughes right-hand man and syndicated newspaper columnist each sketched Brewster as, in Dietrich's words, "an errand boy for and ," who pushed for legislation that would give Pan Am the single-carrier international air for the U.S. The movie portrays Brewster (played by ) similarly, as corrupt and in the pocket of Pan Am, the rival of Hughes' . Hughes spread rumors about Brewster's close association with Pan Am, alleging that he received free flights and hospitality in return for legislation such as his bill to withdraw government approval for TWA flights across the Atlantic. Noah Dietrich Jack Anderson Juan Trippe Pan American World Airways monopoly Martin Scorsese The Aviator Alan Alda TWA
In a Senate hearing that electrified the nation, Hughes repeated his accusations that Brewster had promised an end to the Senate inquiry if Hughes would agree to merging TWA with Pan Am. (Dietrich wrote that Hughes, in a bid to stall for time before the hearing, went so far as to launch negotiations with Trippe about such a merger.) In response, Brewster, stung by the allegations, stood aside from chairing the inquiry and became instead a witness before the committee which also allowed Hughes to question Brewster directly. Brewster denied Hughes' allegations and made several counter-claims, but by the time the hearing ended Brewster's reputation had suffered greatly. Paradoxically, Hughes, for all his wealth, came across as what Dietrich described as the "little guy" who "fought City Hall and won." [1]
In 1952, Hughes worked hard to ensure Brewster's political demise, persuading the then Governor of Maine, , to challenge him for the Republican Senate nomination. Armed with practically unlimited campaign funds from Hughes, Payne challenged Brewster's connection with McCarthyism and groups, and also took up Hughes' claims that Brewster was corrupt. This led to the unusual defeat of an incumbent Senator in his own ; Payne would only last one term, being defeated by in 1958. Frederick G. Payne racist primary Ed Muskie
[] edit Retirement and later years
In his retirement Brewster continued active involvement in many conservative organizations. Brewster was a . He was a member of the , , the , the , the , the , and . He denied being a member of the , although he received their support. Christian Scientist American Bar Association Grange American Legion Freemasons Elks Odd Fellows Delta Kappa Epsilon Ku Klux Klan
Brewster died unexpectedly of in 1961 in , . He was buried at Mount Pleasant Cemetery in where his home was converted to the Brewster Inn, a . cancer Brookline Massachusetts Dexter, Maine bed and breakfast
[] edit Popular culture
In 2004, Brewster was portrayed by in , a performance for which Alda was nominated for an . Alan Alda The Aviator Oscar
[] edit Notes
. Los Angeles: Delta Entertainment Corporation, 2004. Note: Testimony by Brewster and Hughes during the Senate Hearings is now in the public domain. ^ The Great Aviator: Howard Hughes, His Life, Loves & Films - A Documentary
[] edit Bibliography
Anderson, Jack and James Boyd. . New York: Random House Incorporated, 1979. .Confessions of a Muckraker ISBN 0-39449-124-6