Version for printing
As a school pupil showed remarkable promise and he developed for himself the laws of trigonometry. He studied mathematics at the universities of Amsterdam and Göttingen from 1919 until 1925.B L van der Waerden
The year 1924 he spent in Göttingen studying with . His doctorate, supervised by Hendrik de Vries, was awarded by Amsterdam for a thesis on the foundations of . In 1928 he received his from Göttingen. Emmy Noether algebraic geometry habilitation
The year 1928 was a busy one for van der Waerden. He received a position at the University of Rostock but was appointed to a lectureship at Groningen in the same year. In 1931 he was appointed professor of mathematics at the University of Leipzig where he became a colleague of . Heisenberg
Before and after World War II van der Waerden had problems as a foreigner from the Nazis. Although working in Germany he refused to give up his Dutch citizenship and his life was made difficult.
After the War van der Waerden worked for Shell in Amsterdam in applied mathematics. In 1947 he visited the USA going to Johns Hopkins University. He returned in 1948 to a chair of mathematics at Amsterdam where he remained until 1951. In 1950 Karl died and van der Waerden was appointed to fill the vacant chair in Zurich in 1951. Fueter
His impact on the department in Zurich was very great. As well as an almost unbelievable range of mathematical research interests, van der Waerden stimulated research in Zurich by supervising over 40 doctoral students during his years there. In fact van der Waerden was to remain in Zurich for the rest of his life.
Van der Waerden worked on algebraic geometry, abstract algebra, , , , geometry, combinatorics, analysis, , mathematical statistics, , the history of mathematics, the history of modern physics, the history of astronomy and the history of ancient science. groups topology number theory probability theory quantum mechanics
In algebraic geometry van der Waerden defined precisely the notions of dimension of an algebraic variety, a concept intuitively defined before. His work in algebraic geometry uses the ideal theory in polynomial rings created by , and . His work also makes considerable use of the algebraic theory of fields. Artin Hilbert Emmy Noether
Van der Waerden's most famous work is published in 1930. This two volume work reports on the algebra developed by , , and .Algebra Emmy Noether Hilbert Dedekind Artin
In he showed the asymptotic result that almost all integral algebraic equations have the full as Galois group. He produced results in , , and generalised some of 's results on rings. Galois theory symmetric group invariant theory linear groups Lie groups Emmy Noether
In group theory he studied the groups (3, ) with generators and exponent 3. These are solutions of the . These groups were shown to be finite by . In 1933 van der Waerden found the exact order and structure of the groups (3, ). He showed that the order of (3, ) is 3 where the exponent Burnside Brr Burnside problem Burnside BrBr()Nr
() = + (-1)/2 + (-1)(-2)/6.Nrrrrrrr
Among his many historical books are (1950) translated into English as (1954), (1983) and (1985). The history of mathematics was not a topic he just turned to late in life: his important paper appeared in 1947.Ontwakende wetenschapScience AwakeningGeometry and Algebra in Ancient CivilizationsA History of AlgebraDie Arithmetik der Pythagoreer
andArticle by:J J O'ConnorE F Robertson
Click on to see a list of the Glossary entries for this page this link