Pampered Chef business opportunity
Pampered Chef distributor opportunity
The Pampered Chef—UK is the premier direct seller of essential kitchen tools, and has been helping families prepare quick, delicious meals since 1999. We believe that multi-purpose tools are the cornerstone of an efficient kitchen. Our products are designed to be used in more than one way, so kitchens are no longer cluttered with rarely used utensils. As a proud member of the Direct Selling Association, Ltd.(DSA), The Pampered Chef—UK supports the Association’s “Code of Ethics,” a promise to uphold the highest standards of business practices. In 2002, The Pampered Chef—UK was presented with the Direct Selling Association's New Business Award in recognition of outstanding achievement in the creation of a new direct-selling business in the United Kingdom. At The Pampered Chef—UK, we have a vision that someday families all around the world will know the joy and rewards of gathering together in the tradition of family mealtimes. To help make this vision a reality, we specialize in high-quality tools that make cooking quick, easy and fun. Dedicated to fostering entrepreneurship, The Pampered Chef—UK has a reputation for providing solutions to those who want a healthy balance between career and family. Our products are available exclusively through our sales force of independent Kitchen Consultants. These highly trained professionals bring our products to life at in-home Kitchen Shows™, where guests learn time-saving cooking techniques and sample great-tasting, easy-to-prepare recipes — all in a relaxed atmosphere with good friends, plenty of laughter and lots of fun! The Pampered Chef—UK is a proud member of the Direct Selling Association, Ltd. (DSA). Every member company pledges to abide by the DSA's Code of Ethics that spells out guidelines for companies and salespeople to follow in selling products and recruiting and working with salespeople. Our Code of Ethics has been approved by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The OFT is an independent organisation that plays a leading role in helping consumers understand their rights, protecting consumer interests throughout the UK, and ensuring that business practices are fair and competitive. Doris Christopher founded The Pampered Chef (US) in 1980. As a home economist and educator, she used and demonstrated functional, high-quality kitchen tools and equipment. Often the tools available in local stores were not of the quality available to her as a professional. Many products were not well designed, salespeople were often uninformed and information included with the products was inadequate. Doris' recognition of the need for quality products with complete information grew into The Pampered Chef. The home was a natural setting for the "show and tell" method of selling these products. Customers could see how the products worked, try them out and even taste the results. The home demonstration method of selling also gave Doris a flexible work schedule, allowing a balance between career and family responsibilities. The Pampered Chef had a modest beginning, with Doris' home in Chicago serving as the office and warehouse. By the end of the first full year, the sales force had grown to 12, with sales over $50,000 (US). In 1987, sales exceeded the $1 million (US) mark, and today, sales are over $700 (US) million in the United States alone. We anticipate the continuation of this incredible growth over the next several years. In September of 1999, The Pampered Chef launched its business in the United Kingdom, extending Doris' mission of preserving family mealtime. Consultants and customers across the country soon embraced the company, its high-quality kitchen tools and the impeccable service it provides. There are now hundreds of Consultants presenting Shows in the United Kingdom, with more Consultants starting their own Pampered Chef businesses every day. From its inception, the company has been committed to fostering entrepreneurship. Today, The Pampered Chef is a rapidly expanding, multimillion dollar enterprise with more than 71,000 independent Kitchen Consultants across the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany and a reputation as the premier direct seller of high-quality kitchen tools. As the premier direct seller of essential kitchen tools and part of the Berkshire Hathaway family of businesses, The Pampered Chef and its sales force of independent Kitchen Consultants offer multi-purpose kitchen tools, easy recipes that offer dramatic results and simple mealtime preparation techniques that make home cooking quick, easy and fun. One Pampered Chef Lane Addison, Illinois 60101-5630 U.S.A. Riding Court Riding Court Road Datchet, Berkshire SL3 9JT United Kingdom Professional-quality kitchen tools. Approximately 143 items are available; 82% of all products are exclusive to The Pampered Chef. There is a guarantee of at least one year on all products. Products are sold primarily through in-home cooking demonstrations known as Kitchen Shows (over 1 million were held in the United States in 2002). Direct Sales. There are seven levels of field management progressing from Kitchen Consultant to Senior Executive Director. Our Kitchen Consultants organize, develop and maintain independent businesses according to their personal needs. They also determine their own hours, goals and levels of achievement. Many Consultants work part time, while others choose to reap the rewards of a full-time business. There are levels of field management within The Pampered Chef organization to suit all levels of entrepreneurial ambition — beginning with Kitchen Consultant and advancing up to Senior Executive Director. All Consultants enjoy valuable training and incentive programmes, sponsored by the Corporate Office. We supply the tools and motivation, but the rest is up to them. United Kingdom Kitchen Consultants have travelled to fabulous vacation spots such as Rome and Paris. The bread and butter of The Pampered Chef business is the Kitchen Show™, where Consultants use their expertise to make our products come to life. In 2002, over 1 million in-home Kitchen Shows were held in the US, Canada, UK and Germany and sales soared to more than $700 million (US). The Pampered Chef has opportunities to satisfy every taste. If you're in the mood for fun, host or attend a Pampered Chef Kitchen Show™ — complete with friendly people, delicious food and handy kitchen tools that make meal preparation easy. Or if professional and financial independence is what you crave, become a Kitchen Consultant and enjoy the benefits of a flexible schedule, unlimited earning potential and fantastic rewards. Pampered Chef - distributor / business opportunity
Our Vision
At the Heart of the Matter: A Spirit of Entrepreneurism
Pampered Chef - History