According to the National Association of Realtors, over 70% of all homebuyers now use the Internet to search for homes so if your house isn't on the internet, it should be.And that's where we can help.Using my websites' Online Property Presentation feature, I can provide you with a great marketing tool to get your home on the web in front of potential buyers. Here's how it works. You order an appraisal from us via our website. Once the report is complete, I can publish a summary page of the appraisal to my website (with your permission, of course). A unique webpage URL is created for your property address that you use in all aspects of marketing your home to potential buyers. Your webpage is displayed as a beautiful Flash-animated listing brochure just like what actual real estate agents use to market their listings. Your webpage will also include: You know your home better than anyone. And you know what features to highlight and what features you might want to downplay. So let us help you get the exposure your home deserves.
More and more homeowners today are choosing to sell their homes FSBO (For Sale By Owner) and foregoing the help of a real estate agent.Selling your home by this method can end up saving you a potential eftycommission (industry average is 5-7% of the home selling price).Plus many FSBO sellers feel that they have more control in the process of selling their home since theye in essence making all the rules.Appraiser Jargon
A prominent display of your contact information so potential buyers know how to reach you
A Property Details and Property Highlights area to display information like community and/or neighborhood demographics, school district, your home unique amenities, and any other features about your home you want to highlight
A detailed summary of our complete appraisal report and a link for your potential buyers to download it
A link to download an online location map so prospects can see your exact property address
An impressive virtual tour of all the photos of your home contained in our appraisal report
An e-mail link for potential buyers to send your webpage to a friend
Worth Every Dollar Appraisals, LLC P.O. Box 170467 Atlanta, GA 30317-0467 E-mail: Yahoo IM: worth_every_dollar_appraisals