It might be our error, or an issue with your operator. You can go to your phone's browser and type in: m.yahoo.com
Or type this URL into your phone's browser:
m.yahoo.com
oneSearch with Voice
Mobile search that virtually reads your mind.
Get the right answer whenever you need it with Yahoo! oneSearch", a search engine designed specifically for mobile users. You can search for anything  from share quotes to celebrity news, sport scores or movie reviews, and get up-to-date and relevant answers every time you search. oneSearch understands what you're after and, where you have enabled this functionality, remembers your location, giving you results tailored to wherever you are. Your results will appear on one page  conveniently grouped into key categories  so finding what you need becomes child's play.
! Try it here
A wealth of information at your fingertips.
oneSearch gives you the Internet plus Mobile Web content  delivering a wealth of information in the way that best suits you. From Yahoo! features like Finance, Flickr" and Answers to Wikipedia and the latest news headlines  you'll get information that is current, comprehensive, accurate and easy to navigate. Your results will appear on one page, conveniently grouped into key categories. oneSearch means you can now use your phone to locate anything you would have previously searched for on your PC.
Think global. Act local.
You've got the world in the palm of your hand with oneSearch. You get the best of Yahoo! Local  local listings, arranged according to distance and user ratings  available at-a-glance on your phone. Addresses, click-to-call numbers, step-by-step driving directions, maps  all the information you need to get from here to there in no time. Have trouble choosing? Let Yahoo! help  we've got a huge range of community-generated reviews. Whether youre in your hometown or finding your way around the city, Yahoo! oneSearch tells you what you need to know and keeps you up to date.
Text your question, get an instant response.
You can use text messaging to get the same great results from Yahoo! oneSearch when you're on the go. Just text your question to and you'll get a message back with the answer. Or if you prefer, you can get your response as a link to the Web pages you need to view  local listings, weather, directions and more  all tailored to your current location.86200
to learn more.