to purchase all products >>> Enter Store
Deerhunter was founded in 1985 as a result of the Engel family's great passion for hunting- and outdoor life. The idea behind Deerhunter was - and still is - to make a brand that always gives the customers the feeling of getting value for money. Deerhunter has been designed for modern hunters and individuals who prize the Great Outdoors; for whom freedom of movement and outstanding technical quality is the decisive factor. Every year, for more than 20 years, the brand has grown and developed its range, so that today, Deerhunter offers a complete collection of hunting and leisure clothing.
Deerhunter Clothing & Accessories
The Ram jacket with its 100% Waterproof, Windproof & Breathable Deer-Tec fabric is now also available as a combi offer with matching Ram trousers. It features a Waterproof, Windproof & Breathable design, Hitenareinforcements, Detachable hood w/string closure, Anti-slip gun support on shoulder, Strong 2-way zipper, Adjustable cuffs, Ventilation, Inside windshield, Foldable/detachable seating pad, Frost-proof silicone buttons, 7 functional pockets.
More Info...
Daytona is one of the most popular additions to the Deerhunter family. The Daytona lightweight series has a classic cut. The strong woven fabric makes the set ideal for hunting in rough terrian. The series is available in solid green and a very nice, new brown colour. Features new magnetic pocket flaps. The range also features a matching full length jacket and trousers with wide brimmed hat.
More Info...
This fleece jacket features the breathable, wind and waterproof Deer-Tex membrane. Further more, the shoulders and collar are reinforced with Hitena, a material with extraordinary high wearing qualities. A smart fleece jacket for hunting and other outdoor activities. Available in Plain Green, Realtree APG, Advantage Timber & Deerhunter Innovation.
More Info...
APG stands for ll-Purpose Green(all purposes green) and is developed for the early autumn as well as the spring season. Regardless of where or when you hunt, trust APG to deliver the kind of around-the-clock concealment that you're hunting for. See for more info...
Realtree APG Camouflage & Realtree AP Camouflage Patterns
Camouflage explained
The Rusky range is a soft, noiseless and durable range made of Micro Suede. The renowned Deer-Texmembrane ensures that the body is protected against wind and water, with neither jacket nor trousers losing their breathability. Deer-Texspecial insulation retains the heat, which makes the outfit perfect for activities which require sitting still for long periods and also for extreme weather conditions.
Deerhunter Rusky Jacket & Rusky Clothing Accesories More Info...
The Montana jacket with its 100% Waterproof, Windproof & Breathable Deer-Tecfabric is now also available as a combi offer with matching Montana trousers. Features: Waterproof, Windproof & Breathable Detachable Deer-Texmembrane, Detachable fleece jacket, Strong 2-way zipper, String closure in collar/waist/bottom, Extra shoulder width, Adjustable neoprene cuffs, Frost-proof silicone buttons, Extra long back, Under arm ventilation, 9 functional pockets.