Print Full Article
Send and View Scores
to see if your SAT scores are available. If you do not have a collegeboard.com account, . Visit SAT Reg & Scores
sign up today
Sending Your Scores
You can order score reports to be sent to colleges and scholarship programs, in addition to the four reports that are included with your registration (as long as you specified them by test day). To make changes to score recipients, visit . You can update your score recipients until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time, on the Monday one week after your scheduled test date. My SAT
Requesting Additional Score Reports Online:
The easiest way to send additional scores is online. The timeframes for score delivery vary, based on each institution's method of receiving scores. Please remember that an additional week may be needed for the score recipients to process your scores, once they receive them.
To send additional score reports:
Go to the and click the button. You'll be prompted to sign in to your personal SAT Registration and Scores page. If you haven't already created a user name and password, do so now. Scores page View and Send Scores
Click the button.Send Available Scores
Search by name, state, code, or country for the colleges and scholarship programs you'd like to receive your scores.
You'll have the opportunity to edit your list of recipients or to choose regular or of your scores. rush delivery
Review and print your confirmation page.
Payment must be made by credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express or Discover). .Once you submit your request online, it cannot be canceled
There is a for sending additional score reports; however, if you are a fee-waiver-eligible student, you may have additional flexible score report credits, which are displayed on the scores page. fee
Requesting Additional Score Reports by Mail:
To request additional score reports by mail, download the following form. Be sure to complete each section to avoid score reporting delays.
After completing the form, send it, along with proper payment, to:
SAT Program P.O. Box 8057 Mt. Vernon, IL 62864
Please make your check or money order payable to The College Board.
Important notes:
We send a cumulative report of all scores that are available and reportable at the time your request is received. You cannot send only your latest or highest SAT scores, or separate scores for critical reading, mathematics, or writing sections, or only SAT, or only Subject Test scores.
Only score reports from completed and scored tests will be sent to the colleges and scholarship programs you select. Scores from future tests for which you registered, but have not yet completed, will not be included. Check your to see which scores are available to send. My SAT
Your scores are maintained on active file for one year after your high school graduation, or for one school year following your test date if you tested after high school. Please see for more information if you last tested before October 2002. Archived Scores