Number of computers to be cleaned
Specify number of keyboards and/or monitors to be cleaned
Please allow up to 48 hours for your quotation to reach you.
Request more info...
Perhaps you require more specific information not mentioned on this website?  If so, kindly and we will get back to you within 48 hours with further information as you require. contact us
What we offer...
Included with every cleaning job we do the following:
 High Pressure Keyboard Spray
Scented Keyboard Protection Wipe
Pocket size antibacterial spray
We offer a maximum turnaround time per keyboard per cleaner of 25 minutes and we operate after hours and on weekends for flexibility with our clients and their users.  We are happy to accomodate specific scheduling requirements if needed.
48 hour response times!
Not only does CleanKeys offer the best cleaning services, CleanKeys will also respond to your requests within 48 hours!  So contact us now for a quotation....
Ensuring a healthy workplace!
  Written by Web Master
Saturday, 12 June 2004
CleanKeys is here to ensure your employees have a sustained, healthy working environment by keeping their workplace and their most used tools germ free!
Computer keyboards and mice gather so many germs during the course of the day which soon escalate to an unbelivable amount of germs which soon aid in health risks and spreading of germs and diseases which ultimately lead to illnesses across the firm, thus reducing productivity and especially employees taking sick leave to recover.
By minimising the spread of germs, we thus gain the benefit of better performance, better staff availibility and most of all, our computer equipment is well maintained and needs not be replaced as frequently, thus gaining more usage from our tools than before.
CleanKeys closes this gap and minimises these risks for our clients.  So why wait any longer, give us a call today and enjoy our professional services and a better lifestyle!!!
Last Updated ( Tuesday, 12 August 2008 )
 
Testimonial
Before we used CleanKeys to clean our computer equipment, we were spending thousands to replace old, dirty keyboards which no longer worked.  We experienced many staff taking sick leave for general cold epidemics which cost our company greatly over time.
From the very first day CleanKeys came on board to service us, our statistics showed a drop in sick leave requests and our staff were generally healthier and happier.
Every two years we perform a full upgrade of all computers, however, this is the second time round we do not need to replace keyboards and mice for the firm and have saved thousands alone on this usual expense.
Many thanks to you CleanKeys!!!
Johny Smith
IT Director Rare Portfolio Management
Indemnity
CleanKeys serves each client with prestigious care and perfection, ensuring professionalism on all counts.
Copyright