Further images/video are available to users.
1
Also known as:
Introduction
Disc jockeys (DJs) are performers who introduce and play music for an audience. They work in pubs and clubs, mobile discos and radio. Their job includes talking to the audience as well as operating technical equipment.
Back to Top
Work Activities
Disc jockeys (DJs) are performers who present and play music to a particular audience. They work in one of a number of areas including pubs and clubs, mobile discos and local or national radio stations.
DJs who run mobile discos or work in pubs and clubs have to buy equipment before they can begin work. Equipment includes CDs or records and, in the case of mobile DJs, a whole sound system containing items such as an amplifier, speakers, lights and CD players.
Before a gig, mobile DJs need to unload and set up equipment. They must dismantle it at the end of the gig.
Before and during a gig, DJs select music to suit the particular audience. If people don't like the music, the DJ will have to think quickly and change the music to something that the audience likes. Some DJs mix music between one track and the next, either so that there are no gaps in the music or to create new sounds. Others talk between tracks, using a microphone. They often take music requests from the audience.
Mobile DJs need to maintain their equipment, find faults and carry out repairs, especially when the system develops a fault during a gig. DJs also organise publicity for themselves or, sometimes, the pub/club they are working for.
DJs working in radio (often known as 'presenters') introduce and play music and create a programme around the music, which involves duties such as interviewing guests, hosting 'phone-ins', presenting quiz shows, playing jingles and talking to listeners between tracks. They may also introduce news bulletins, give out travel news and weather information and, on commercial radio stations, broadcast advertisements.
Radio DJs follow a 'running order' that gives the times and sequence for items. Most DJs help to decide the running order with the producer. They also help to choose music and contribute ideas for features.
For many DJs, travel throughout the local area is usual, and some work nationally and even internationally. This may also involve periods away from home. Alternatively, a DJ working in a holiday camp may spend the whole summer season (April - October) based at one camp.
Back to Top
Personal Qualities and Skills
You should have a knowledge of a wide range of music or a specialised knowledge and understanding of a particular branch or branches of popular music.
You will need to be comfortable using a microphone and it is essential that you have clear speech.
You should be outgoing, confident and friendly in order to communicate with an audience and to carry out interviews.
It is important that you are well organised and able to think and react quickly if anything unexpected happens, such as equipment breaking down or a guest failing to arrive for an interview.
If you decide to work in radio, you will need an enthusiasm for and knowledge of particular types of music and current affairs. For local radio, you should have a knowledge of music and local affairs.
You should be able to operate technical equipment and as a mobile DJ, you will also need to be able to maintain and fix equipment.
DJs require business skills in order to sell their services, control budgets, buy equipment and keep financial records. Self-employed
For all types of DJ work you need stamina, enthusiasm and self-confidence.
Back to Top
Pay and Opportunities
Pay rates for disc jockeys (DJs) vary depending on whether they are employed or , and their level of popularity. self-employed
The pay rates given below are approximate.
Self-employed DJs working a local circuit of pubs and clubs, earn in the range of 0 - 00 a night. Fees for well-known and celebrity DJs are usually negotiated between the DJ's agent and the club or broadcaster. At this level, earnings can be very high.
DJs work different hours, depending on the nature of their work. Hours may be regular or irregular, in the daytime, evening or through the night. Weekend and public holiday working is common.
Many DJs are self-employed. They may find work themselves or via an agent. They work in places like clubs, pubs, hotels and holiday camps, and on ferries and cruise ships.
In broadcasting, employers include BBC local, regional, national and World Service radio. There are also opportunities to work in commercial radio with independent national and local stations.
DJs come from a wide range of backgrounds and age groups. Personality is more important than academic qualifications.
Back to Top
Adult Opportunities
It is illegal for any organisation to set for entry to employment, education or training, unless they can show there is a real need to have these limits. age limits
A background in the entertainment and music industries can be important. Voluntary or holiday work in local community or hospital radio stations is relevant. Scriptwriting experience for local radio programmes is also seen as valuable.
85% of people in occupations such as disc jockey are . self-employed
44% work part-time.