Mel Pomponio, page designer and Rocky Guild chairwoman
Jan. 1, 2009No Comment
At Field Junior High School there was a certain math class you could take that would also put you on the student newspaper staff. The teacher wore many hats. He was also my volleyball coach, so he knew where to find me after school if he needed some last-minute typing done.
I didnt choose the class because of the paper. I chose it because my older friends told me Mr. Woods was easy, and I was no math genius.
I dont remember using pictures, other than clip art, in the paper. And it was more of a four-page, stapled, ditto-type thing (ah, smell those dittos!), but it served its purpose  to inform the student body about happenings at our rural Ohio school. I wrote stories for the paper, but by far my favorite duty was writing what I suppose you could call the gossip column. Whos dating who? Is it true a certain 8th grader got cut from the basketball team? Did you know that the cafeterias hamburgers are made from beef-flavored baby food? Just plain silliness, really, and not very good journalism as it was all based on unnamed sources and heresay, but I looked forward to writing it every week because it meant I was in the know.
The week of the announcement of the sale of the Rocky, I was having a late-night chat with columnist Mike Littwin (are there any other kind?). We agreed that our motivation for doing what we do is that we love to know things before anyone else. We love to break the news. We love to have the inside track. And, yes, we love deadline (perhaps one of us more than the other!).
I came to the Rocky in 2000 after stints at the Loveland Daily Reporter-Herald, the Wyoming Tribune-Eagle and the Kent-Ravenna Record-Courier. My early days as a paid newspaperwoman were spent reporting. I wasnt a particularly good reporter. Id get so involved in the stories I reported, that the line between my life and theirs blurred.
So I trained to become an editor, and I later trained myself to design. Ive practically lived at the papers I worked at, always agreeing to take on extra projects because they would improve the quality of the paper. And because they were fun. I spent so much time at the Tribune-Eagle in Cheyenne, that I ended up falling in love with and marrying the sports editor.
I have children now, so living at the paper is no longer a practical way to spend every waking moment, but when news breaks, theres no place Id rather be. On Election Night, I dont leave my desk. I dont want to miss anything. During the DNC, assistant presentation director George Tanner and I walked the 16th Street Mall every day before our shifts started, twittering and taking pictures to post on the Web site. When the escalators malfunctioned at Coors Field after a Rockies game, pulling apart and redoing the paper with 10 minutes until deadline was one of the most fun nights I ever had at work.
This sounds corny, but I didnt choose journalism as my lifes work, it chose me. I cant imagine another profession that would suit me better or make me more happy.
Im not a Colorado native, but the Rocky isnt just another job at another newspaper in another town. It is a vital thread in the fabric of our great state. It is the historic record of the infancy of Colorado and the city of Denver. I love learning something new every day about this area my family and I have made home for the past 10 years. And I love presenting what I know to our readers.
Today, my life and the lives of those I share a newsroom with are blurred, and thats just fine with me. Ive spent the past four years hopefully making their lives better as the chairwoman of the Rocky newsroom Guild. I do it because they are my Rocky family and despite our ups and downs, I care about every single one of them.
The people I work with at the Rocky are the finest journalists Ive ever had the privilege to work with. I admire them. I learn from them. I work hard every day to become like them. We all aspire to live up to the high standards set by those who have come before us.
Since the seventh grade, Ive worked tirelessly to become a journalist. And not just a good one. I want to be a great one. Every day I spend at the Rocky, I get closer.
Testimonials
More testimonials
Candlelight March
I Want My Rocky will hold a candlelight march from the Denver Press Club to the Denver Newspaper Agency building Thursday, Jan. 29, to show support for the Rocky Mountain News. The event is open to one and all: readers and writers, labor and management, Post and News and DNA, public officials and private citizens.
Each marcher  150 total  will hold a candle and placard representing one year of the newspapers 150-year history. The group will gather at the Denver Press Club at 6 p.m. and head out single file to the DNA building at 6:30 p.m. Marchers will ring the building. The person bearing the 1859 placard and candle will light the candle representing 1860, 1860 will light 1861 and so on through 2009. The vigil will last about a half hour.
If you would like to be a part of this historic event, please contact John Ensslin at . contactus@iwantmyrocky.com
What you can do to help
listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper Preservation Act.
reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the board of E.W. Scripps
, send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts
a newspaper.Buy