 
THOUGHTS & QUOTES
Ever wonder about firsts? I often wonder who was first to determine that artichokes (which are in the thistle family) were edible!
Here are some examples of ‘firsts’ for safety devices and improved safety development – many of which are taken for granted today.
The was the building of the San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge. It was also the to protect workers from falls. first hard hat construction zone first construction zone known to use safety nets
Volvo provided seat belts in their cars as early as 1959. In 1984 New Hampshire became the first state to mandate seat belt use. For more information about the history of seatbelts see: . http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seat_belt
The first farm safety movement in this country did not really develop until the late 1930s. The first great impetus given to organized farm safety occurred with the formation of a farm program as a part of the 1937 National Safety Congress. The proceedings of that meeting noted that agriculture, the nation's oldest and largest industry, had yet to develop a safety program. Participants in this first farm safety conference called for the development of a program in agricultural injury prevention. Statistics at the time revealed that fatalities and disabling injuries in agriculture far outnumbered those in other industries. For more historical information about the early days of the farm safety movement see: . http://ohioline.osu.edu/~agsafety/NIFS/earlydev.htm
The Mayo Clinic started from a disaster! The event where the Mayo Clinic story usually begins happened in 1883, when a tornado devastated Rochester, Minnesota. With the assistance of his sons, other doctors who came to help, and the local Sisters of Saint Francis of Rochester, organized treatment of the injured. This was the forerunner of the world renowned Mayo Clinic we know today. William W. Mayo
…..consider safety first!
[top]
June is National Safety Month
Throughout the month, 2006 National Safety Month activities will address safety risks and include injury prevention tips applicable to the workplace, driving, and the home and community. Information is at: Check the site for new safety tips of the day. http://www.nsc.org/nsm/.
[top]
Generator Safety Video On-line
Recent sales of portable generators have been brisk. Past issues of SN&N have included links to generator safety information. Since June is the first month of hurricane season, we will highlight some of those again. Additionally, Florida Light and Power has a . short safety video that can be viewed on-line
Florida Light and Power has an for determining what size generator to purchase to meet your needs. Cost estimates are also provided. on-line calculator
Florida Power and Light offers . This includes one about being a good neighbor -– if the power is out, chances are good that your neighbors are sleeping with the windows open -– be aware of where the noise is ‘traveling’! other topics related to generators
[top]
Siphoning Gas -- Safety Tips
Last year when people ran out of gasoline after the storms, there were several injuries reported due to exposure to gasoline from siphoning.
When siphoning fuel, use a pump. A mouthful of gasoline or diesel fuel could be fatal, especially if it gets into your lungs. Also avoid excessive inhalation of gasoline vapor. There are several inexpensive pump-type siphoning devices available on the market for making fluid transfers easier and safer.Never use your mouth.
[top]
Skid-Steer Loaders
There was a death recently on a Florida dairy farm when the worker was pinned between a skid-steer loader and its bucket. Also, skid-steer loaders are often used during tree removal and for cleaning up after storms.
A skid-steer loader is a very useful piece of equipment. However, it must be used as intended, and operators must know how to use them properly. The following Fatality Assessment & Control Evaluation (FACE) reports provide case study examples of fatalities while operating skid-steer loaders: