Business
ASK OUR EXPERTS...
“PDA” is a generic term used to describe a handheld computer. It fits comfortably in a pocket or purse, and can store contact data, schedules, notes and much more. Some PDA’s can run versions of Microsoft Word, Excel, and Powerpoint, and even include the features of cell phones, email, text messaging, cameras, MP3 music players and GPS (Global Positioning System) features. PDA’s can be a lifesaver because they replace bulky paper daytimers, address books, and all the miscellaneous paper lists that seem to accumulate (and be lost). All your information is organized and stored in one compact, convenient place. And you can set reminders so you need never forget another birthday or anniversary! PDA’s are often used in conjunction with a personal computer, to access data while away from the computer. PDA’s are a versatile extension of a personal computer because of their ability to synchronize (“synch”) data between the computer and the PDA. The synchronization process creates a backup copy, and lets you enter appointments or addresses either on your computer or in the PDA. When you “synch”, the information is automatically updated in both places. You can buy and use a PDA even if you don’t have a computer. If you don’t synch to a computer, all your information will be stored on the PDA. You’ll need to be a little more careful to keep the batteries charged, because you won’t have a backup copy. Modern PDA’s use rechargeable batteries, and a charge lasts anywhere from a few days to a week or more (depending on usage). What’s the process? If you don’t have a computer, you simply buy a PDA, and start entering your data. If you do have a computer, you buy the PDA, and then install its software on your computer. You can start entering data either into the PDA itself, or into the software on your computer. If you purchase a PDA with cell phone or email capabilities, you also need to sign up for a cellular phone and/or data program with a cell phone service provider like Rogers or Telus. Whether you choose a basic device to keep track of appointments, lists and addresses, or the latest PDA with all the bells and whistles, you’ll soon be hooked on its convenience.Lately everybody seems to be talking about PDA’s. What is a PDA, and why would I want one?    
By Diane Henders of Bright Ideas Personalized Learning
For more information on computer hardware, please contact Bright Ideas Personalized Learning at 692.2255, or visit www.BrightIdeasWeb.biz
            ****Rising Women Magazine   Calgary, Alberta  Canada 403 228-7874