This is the for discussing improvements to the article. talk page Great Pyramid of Giza
about the article's subject.This is for general discussion not a forum
Any such messages will be deleted. Please limit discussion to improvement of this article.This is for general discussion of your personal opinions about the Great Pyramid of Giza. not a forum
This article is within the scope of the following :  WikiProjects
     (Rated B-Class) WikiProject Archaeology
This article is within the scope of , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the and see a list of open tasks.
This article has been as on the . rated B-Class quality scale
???
     (Rated B-Class) WikiProject Architecture
This article is within the scope of , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the and see a list of open tasks.
     (Rated B-Class) WikiProject Egypt
This article is within the scope of , an attempt to build a comprehensive and detailed guide to articles on Egypt on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, you can edit the article attached to this page, or visit the , where you can join the project and/or contribute to the .
This article has been as on the . rated B-Class Project's quality scale
Top
This article has been as on the . rated Top-importance Project's importance scale
After rating the article, please provide a summary on the article's to explain your ratings and/or identify the strengths and weaknesses.short ratings summary page
was one of the , but it has been removed from the list. There are suggestions below for improving the article to meet the . Once these issues have been addressed, the article can be . Editors may also seek a of the decision if they believe there was a mistake.Great Pyramid of Giza History good articles good article criteria renominated reassessment
Article milestones
[] edit Messy end
I'm no expert, but the External Links it of this page is very muddled. I don't want to try and change it, because I haven't the knowledge of how to change layout of an article, so this is more of a request for someone 'in the know' to sort out the final section and make it a bit easier on the eye.
Preceding comment added by ( ) 03:34, 1 April 2008 (UTC) unsigned Uranium grenade talk contribs
Thanks for spurring me on to doing this, it's been bothering me also (as does the editorial bit in at least one link). I just deleted the bits about div. () 05:34, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Be bold, remove more. -- () 06:32, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Secisek talk
More what? () 07:16, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Links. The EL section is in bad shape. -- () 08:36, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Secisek talk
I've done a bit of work on them. The problem is, I think, that most of the article was created by someone who doesn't agree with the mainstream arguments on dating, construction, etc, and put emphasis on those aspects both in the article itself and the links (which is why I guess so many of the links are about construction, with few about anything else other than views). I'm sure there are a number of links that should be included and are not. () 09:06, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Yes, work must continue to preserve the GA rating. -- () 10:53, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Secisek talk
[] edit Egyptian pyramid construction techniques
[] edit GA
Following revision, the article would likely pass GAR as is. Any new material added must be cited with reliable sources to maintain this status. -- () 19:42, 1 April 2008 (UTC) Secisek talk
[] edit Design of the Great gallery
The article mentions that the design reason for the small 'sockets' at regular intervals in the gallery has not been found. This is incorrect as the sockets was used to arrest the granite blocking stones now residing in the lower part of the ascending corridor (the lower extension of the gallery). The gallery was simply a necessity if you wanted to store the 'door-stones' inside the pyramid while at the same time being able to pass them before the final closure of the pyramid. This also explains the vertical shaft between the lower corridor and the base of the gallery. This shaft was the exit for the workers who sealed the pyramid (it would be extremely difficult (if not impossible) to ascend the shaft thus making it an effective 'one way exit' for the workers. It is also interesting to note that the 'grave robbers corridor' (The modern entrance) ends exactly behind the last of the blocking stones in the ascending corridor indicating that the people making the corridor had inside information (pun intended) about the internal arrangement of the corridors and thus likely the corridor was made less than 100 years after the pyramid was finished (possibly by the same workers who made the pyramid of relatives of officials with access to the archives where information of the pyramid may have been kept).
Preceding comment added by ( ) 17:54, 26 May 2008 (UTC) unsigned Yazeran talk contribs
[] edit Inside the Great Pyramid: Needs More!
The Great Pyramid is such a unique, interesting building. I say we need sub-sections on:
The ascending passage
The antechamber
The relieving chambers ...
... and perhaps the shafts, you know, the ones with Gantenbrink s door and all that hoopla. I see they re mentioned in some paragraph but a lot of the above, like the well shaft, doesn t even get a mention.
I m not very knowledgable about the pyramid, and I don t have any reference books, so I m not in the best position to write this myself ... () 13:18, 29 June 2008 (UTC) Bossk-Office talk
yeah sub sections would be really great for kids with projects and stuff like that
Preceding comment added by ( ) 07:24, 10 July 2008 (UTC) unsigned Meiskool4skool talk contribs
[] edit "Limestone concrete"
'A recent theory proposes that the building blocks were manufactured in-place from a kind of "limestone concrete".'
Surely such an unlikely sounding theory needs a citation and indeed should be from a reputable source - after all there are a myriad of strange theories about the pyramids and their construction etc and we cannot and should not include every fringe theory in the article.
This theory sounds very unlikely to me because I am sure a geologist or other scientist would be perfectly capable of distinguishing limestone from a man-made material. () 08:50, 30 June 2008 (UTC) Booshank talk
It is where I think it belongs, in the article. () 10:51, 30 June 2008 (UTC) Egyptian pyramid construction techniques Doug Weller talk
Please remove this silly theore about limestone concrete from the theory section, as it is a fringe theory, having no evidence and no point. The blocks of stone used in the construction of the pyramids have a definite source, the quarries close by, that according to Bob Brier, can be seen from Giza. The Pyramid of Khufu is not built of limestone, only the casing was, which was removed to build mosques.
Thanks, good spot. 18:23, 5 November 2008 (UTC) YNovember 2008 ere Spiel Chequers
[] edit GA Reassessment
This discussion is from . The edit link for this section can be used to add comments to the reassessment. transcluded Talk:Great Pyramid of Giza/GA1
This article has been reviewed as part of in an effort to ensure all listed Good articles continue to meet the . In reviewing the article, I have found there are some issues that may need to be addressed. Wikipedia:WikiProject Good articles/Project quality task force Good article criteria
Looking over the article quickly, I'm impressed with what I see and I think it will remain listed with a little bit of work. I made some fixes myself (general copyediting as well as formatting the book and internet references). At present, my concerns are:
A "citation needed" tag in the "King's Chamber" section.
Does the video in the "Media" section really contribute to the article (I'm flexible on this one, as I don't think it hurts anything)?
The book in the first citation (Edgar) needs more information, including a page number.
Note: I replaced the reference, so this is no longer a concern. () 22:30, 14 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
In the "Construction theories" section, it would be nice if at least a couple of the theories on how the stones were "conveyed and placed" were mentioned, rather than just stating that theories exist. No need to go into a lot of detail on them, though, as there is a separate article.
There is a comment on the article's talk page (see that subsections should be added about various locations within the pyramid. For GA level, I don't think this is the case, but I would be interested in hearing from a contributor to this article about whether mentioning (at least some of) these places in the article would make sense. Talk:Great Pyramid of Giza#Inside the Great Pyramid: Needs More!
Just to clarify, the Queen's Chamber is a misnomer because it was not the burial place for the queen, right?
From the beginning of the "Inside the Great Pyramid" section: "ingenious corbel halloed" "ingenious" is point of view, and I'm confused about "halloed" (should it be "haloed")?
Note: I took out the word "ingenious", as it isn't sourced (feel free to add it back with a source). I also changed the other word to "haloed" (feel free it back with an explanation if "halloed" was correct). () 22:25, 14 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
The lead section should summarize the article, but it currently contains information that isn't included later in the article. I think that most of the second paragraph (starting at "Despite..." and going to the end of the paragraph) would be better if it was moved to the relevant section(s) of the main text.
Note: I moved the other information to the relevant sections, so this should be find if nobody has any complaints about my changes. () 22:25, 14 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
The title of the "Wonder of the Ancient World" section doesn't seem particularly appropriate, as it doesn't deal with the pyramid's status as a wonder of the ancient world. Something along the lines of "Construction" or "Building the pyramid" would be better, in my opinion.
I changed the title to "Building the pyramid" (I wanted to avoid repeating "construction", as this is already the title of a subheading). () 22:25, 14 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
I am willing to keep this listed if these changes are made, but I did feel as I read the article that more detail would have been nice. For example, is the inside of the pyramid decorated? Has anyone found out what is behind those doors? This doesn't need to be included now, but I recommend adding more detail if you plan to nominate this as a possible Featured Article.
I will place this reassessment on hold for seven days to allow for these changes to be made. If more time is needed, the reassessment can be extended if progress is being made. Please feel free to respond here with comments or questions, as I have this article and this reassessment on my watchlist. Best wishes, () 21:52, 10 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
I won't be home for a week, but when I get home I've got the resources to help if I remember! () 19:03, 12 August 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
I am out of wiki-work right now, but would like a final 24 hour warning if the article is to be de-listed, perhaps I can bring it up to standard. It already passed a review earlier this year in more or less the same condition it is in now. -- () 16:03, 14 August 2008 (UTC) Secisek talk
Per Dougweller's request, I have extended the hold to allow more time for the fixes. To summarize what remains to be done:
Cite the last paragraph in the "King's Chamber" section.
Briefly mention a couple more theories in the "Construction theories" section.
Either confirm that the misnomer is the fact that the queen isn't buried there or clarify what it is.
Reply with thoughts about whether any other parts of the structure should be added at this time.
I will allow one week for work to be done; if needed, an extension will be granted at that time if progress has been made. () 14:23, 19 August 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
Due to lack of progress, I have delisted the article. I urge editors to address the remaining concerns regarding breadth of coverage and to renominate the article once these have been addressed. () 21:00, 8 September 2008 (UTC) GaryColemanFan talk
[] edit Infobox
I've removed the world's tallest buildings infobox from this article. Not only is the really most notable information about the pyramids not the fact it was once, several millenia ago, the world's tallest building, but is also carries the rider "Fully habitable, self-supported, from main entrance to highest structural or architectural top;" which just makes no sense whatsoever.-- () 22:29, 12 August 2008 (UTC) Joopercoopers talk
[] edit Cost?
It might seem like a rather odd question, but has anyone got an idea of what the cost (in modern USD) would be, for instance if a construction company were comissioned to build an exact replica, what would be the likley cost? () 12:31, 15 August 2008 (UTC) 81.149.82.243 talk
[] edit Image:Rj2.JPG listed for deletion
has been listed at . Please see the to see why this is (you may have to search for the title of the image to find its entry), if you are interested in it not being deleted. Thank you. () 17:52, 30 August 2008 (UTC) Image:Rj2.JPG Wikipedia:Images and media for deletion discussion Bkell talk
[] edit Construction Time Frame
The Pyramid of Cheops has sides measuring 230 meters long and it is 146 meters high. the volume is aproximatly 2,500,000 cubic meters. Limestone is aproximatly 2.5 tons per cubic meter. The weight is aproximatly 6,250,000 tons
Cheops ruled for 23 years He alledgedly built the Pyramid of Cheops while ruling. In order to build his Pyramid while he ruled he had to carve move and install 744 tons of stone every day for 23 years.
Some experts address doubts about his ability to do this by saying it was built in 100 years which would mean it wasn't built by just 1 pharoah. This would mean it was built by at least 3-4 pharoahs. It would still involve installing 171 tons per day. In order to explain the pyramids this way it would also mean that either the 4 biggest Pyramids were made in different centuries or that at least 2 or 3 of them were under construction at the same time. It's just a simple matter of math you can easily check it yourself.
I don't have a source for these specific estimates but it is very close to most official estimates which vary slightly. The math can easily be adjusted for other estimates.
I don't know whether it is necissary to put this in the article people can figure it out themselves if they want to. Putting it in the article would be for people that don't bother which is most people. If ther is no objection I'll do a version based on a specific source. However if there are objections I won't. () 08:48, 9 September 2008 (UTC) Zacherystaylor talk
I don't think any recognised experts believe it took a century. We know the Red Pyramid took 10 years 7 months from graffiti (Romer, p. 71). Khufu probably used some of the workers who worked on it, so a time scale from that can be estimated (not by us), and Romer gets 14 years from that.p 74 with a schedule on pp 456-460.
I've heard that some experts have said that but I think it may have been vague statements about "experts say". If I find a more specific source I'll cite it. () 05:27, 10 September 2008 (UTC) Zacherystaylor talk
A closer look at raises further doubt about the time frame of his rule and potential construction time frame of the Great Pyramid. According to the he ruled 23 years but according to he ruled 65 years. gives him 50 years. These figures are provided on 's page. A look at the sources seems to imply that the records are not as solid as many Egyptologists including Zahi Hawass seem to imply. If the records are not conclusive it would be far more credible to admit it than pretend they are especialy when there is so much work being atributed to such a short time period. Does anyone know more about how they concluded Khufu ruled only 23 years and the construction time frame is only 20 years? Putting out an official story that seems no more credible than the pseudoscientists gives pseudoscientists credibility by default. If traditional scholars want to critisize pseudoscientists (as they should) the first thing they should do is review their own work better. () 06:01, 1 October 2008 (UTC) Khufu Turin King List Manetho Herodotus Khufu Zacherystaylor talk
[] edit citation request
I added some information about the kings chamber including the assumption that they were hauled from Aswan on barges and then towed to the pyramid. I cited Scarre 70 Wonders of the ancient world. Someone requested additional citation. If this isn't sufficant I can check it again the next time I go to the library but I'm pretty sure it was all in the book.Preceding comment added by ( ) 06:51, 17 September 2008 (UTC) unsigned Zacherystaylor talk contribs
[] edit RE; New Section added on Global placement of the Great Pyramid
In reading carefully through the whole article upon the Great Pyramid, I did note that there is no mention at all as to its placement within Egypt per se in terms of the reasoning behind the selected site i.e. Giza. And yet, practically every text book that mentions the structure by way of introduction, does point out that it is so close to being almost exactly 30 degrees north. And that this fact has led quite a number of researchers to at least ponder whether there is any significance to this point.
As a result of this, I have added a further section to the article as a whole, generally of the size of the other main sections, which at least addresses the basic research thread on this point, by citing two particular theories that point to some sort of special relevance to the latitude placement. I have then counted them with the simple facts that A) There are many pyramids all over Egypt at different latitudes, and B) In selecting a site for the pyramid, the basic necessity of obtaining a solid foundation would have been the primary motivation.
I have tried to keep the sources quite solid in terms of reference materials in terms of books and so forth. However, upon the matter of the geology of the Giza site I have only one book reference noting the unsuitability of a site to the north of Giza by Hancock and Bauval. The wording in their book itself that I paraphrase does appear to be somewhat weak. If anyone knows of a stronger one I think it would be well worth adding.
On another point altogether, my own view of the article of the Great Pyramid is that all of the sections need to be added to just slightly to make them more in-depth, and I especially agree with the poster who said that the ending was messy . In my view, the last section that extends the discussion of the Great Pyramid to a wider look at the Giza complex is a good way to go to end the article. However, this last section itself I think needs a lot more added to it and it needs to be well rounded off.
Sincerely
() 19:40, 19 September 2008 (UTC) Robert Arch talk
Robert-you raise an interesting point about the fact the pyramid is located on the 30th parallel which many have argued was planned. I think however a new section is not required and what you have written could be summed up in a small paragraph better included in the "Building the Pyramid" section as it probably does not warrant a section of its own. thanos5150 Preceding comment added by ( ) 02:35, 25 September 2008 (UTC) unsigned Thanos5150 talk contribs
As it stands, it is original research. The only source is a personal website which can't be used. Robert, would you please read , and ? I think then you will understand the problem with this. If you can source from Bauval or Hancock it can be put back, but I am removing it. I'll also note that the footnote saying " It is a fair estimate that a 1 second of arc sweep over the earth = about 101 feet in distance" would need to be sourced, it is a personal comment. The discussion would also need to meet - whichis more or less what Thanos is saying. () 06:58, 25 September 2008 (UTC) WP:OR WP:SYN WP:SPS WP:UNDUE Doug Weller talk
Dear Doug & Thanos
Thank you for your comments.
On the point you raise first of all Thanos, I did indeed try to keep the article as short as possible, and I did think that it was quite compact. However, compared to the general overall size of the Great Pyramid article it is probably in retrospect too large.
Doug, when I first signed up for Wikipedia I did read some of the guidelines and I did think that the section overall I added was decent enough in terms of research, and that the quality of the sources that I gave was good. However, on the issue of Original research, it seems I was mistaken in my judgement. I looked first at the work of Smyth which began in the late 19th century on the latitude issue . I identified a research thread so to speak, and in my mind I thought that due to the age of this research thread this meant that the topic as a whole passed the Original Research test. However, I have looked again on the Synthesis segment of Wikipedia and the part about drawing conclusions that you suggest. On this point, I think that yes indeed it does fall foul of these guidelines; the part about drawing conclusions, even from cited facts . And thus I can see the reasons for its removal.
On the general topic of the article on the Great Pyramid per se, I will say that though the article does appear to be decent enough, it does suffer somewhat from massive repeated editing. It is a most unstable article, as is clearly evident from a careful look at the past history of the article. It does not seem to be solid hardly at all from one day to the next. One of the most recent major edits; the complete removal of the entire notes and references section, I found unbelievable. Some of the editing is clearly malicious, but I think too that a lot of it is people trying to put forward good research material, and falling foul of the strict guidelines of Wikipedia. I will not though argue with the guidelines, or indeed any of you. They are what they are, and from a more detailed look, I do understand them, and the purpose behind them. However, I think that they are primarily to blame for the disputes over what should be included in the article on the Great Pyramid. The result is simply that the article is nothing more than a statement of just the facts concerning the structure via established research. Now, there is nothing wrong with this as such, because this is the character of the encyclopaedia that the Wiki-people are trying to create. It is what it is.
In parting, I will thus end by saying that overall, I have misjudged Wikipedia and that it is not what I thought it was. I do not see myself contributing further to any more articles. I do thank you Thanos and Doug for your comments, and I hope that things do get better with this particular article. But my guess is that they will not. The future that I see is that you two, and a few others, will be in this Great Pyramid article fire-fighting indefinitely and editing and re-editing ad infinitum. For me, life is just too short to be involved in that kind of activity. Doug, I understand that you are an administrator. If it is possible to get some sort of protection for this article, perhaps that could be the answer. Who knows?
Sincerely
() 00:36, 26 September 2008 (UTC) Robert Arch talk
I hate to see you go. I can understand your frustration. Articles can have various sorts of problems. Well known article titles lead to simple vandalism, from swearing to removal of large junks or even complete page blanking. I think I missed the removal of the entire notes and references section, but I spend so much time simply fixing vandalism even on articles where I'm not involved that I might have been the one that replaced it and forgotten. Then you get content disputes, as has happened here, when an editor disagres with some of the content, wanting to either remove or add content. They are complicated and our policies and guidelines are, as you understand, there to help regulate such disputes. We also have some formal ways of discussing content disputes. They can get messy at times, and this disagreement has been, sadly, mild. You should see the ones that involve some form of nationalistic disputes. In this case I'm obviously of the opinion that Thanos wants to insert an argument that falls below our significance threshold by quite a bit and would end up basically as a way of publicising it on the web.
As for protection, the only protection I could give if it starts getting a storm of vandalism by IP editors - those without usernames. I could protect it temporarily against that. As I'm involved in editing the article it would be wrong for me to protect it against established users.
Please reconsider. You write well and I'm sure you could be an asset. There are plenty of articles where there aren't the sort of problems there are here, and I can point you to some. What are you interested in? () 06:12, 26 September 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Dear Doug,
I think that it is the philosophy of the Encyclopaedia per se that perhaps I am wary of. Good research does not necessarily conform to the guidelines of Wikipedia. Good research may well in fact be in direct opposition to the guidelines. Indeed, in your previous comment before last, you noted that I placed a note in the notes section of the Great Pyramid article: It is a fair estimate that a 1 second of arc sweep over the earth = about 101 feet in distance. With regard to this, I simply do not have an explicit source for this point. And it would be difficult to obtain one in an actual published work. However, I could of course easily produce a source for the circumference of the earth, and also one that there are 1296000 seconds of arc in a full circular sweep. But then, I would have to say, And if one were to multiply 1/1296000 by the circumference (in feet) the answer is 101.4 feet or so. But, this last point is synthesis, is it not, and against Wikipedia guidelines? Even though it is true, and eminently reasonable, it is not allowed.
In another part of the section I submitted, I made a general comment that there are many pyramids in Egypt that are not located close to the 30 degree latitude north. Trying to find an explicit source for this point would prove almost impossible. I could though, with great effort, have collected the Latitude-Longitude co-ordinates of a sample of pyramids, with indeed explicit (published) statements as to their geodetic locations, by way of supporting this point. But of course, in doing so this would be drawing a conclusion would it not? Not allowed.
I think what I am trying to say Doug, is that contributing to Wikipedia under these guidelines would be very frustrating to someone like me; to not be able to draw conclusions which are very reasonable, and which, carefully put forward, would constitute good research. As I said above, it is the philosophy of the encyclopaedia itself that makes me pause when thinking of further contributions. And thus, upon this point, I think that if I did in the future seek to make any more contributions, it would probably be with the minor addition of certain new points, or minor editing. I do not see myself ever again spending hours of time producing and then adding a significant section of new text to an article, knowing that it could be so easily removed with the click of one button by another, even if their intentions were pure. I would be far happier (and I m thinking of my mental health here in the long run) contributing such passages to an article directory that I know cannot be edited by anyone but me.
It is as I said previously Doug, Wikipedia is not what I thought it was. And I am not going to fight it or anything. Because, I can indeed see how very solid articles of interest can be created by conforming to the Wikipedia guidelines. It is just that, such articles, are not of the type that I myself in my academic career am used to producing.
Sincerely
() 19:50, 26 September 2008 (UTC) Robert Arch talk
Robert-Do not let DougWeller discourage you from contributing here. I do not understand how or why he is an administrator for the simple reason he himself does not follow Wiki rules and though as an administrator he is supposed to be objective, he constantly hides behind Wiki rules to promote his own POV. Several times he has included his own OR and passed mainstream opinion off as fact and has even given credit to obscure sources to legitimize his own OR though they did not actually say what he wrote. He will fight till the cows come home to remove any subject or source he doesn't like simply because he does not like the conclusion, including those of Peitre and Gaspero, but does not hold his own edits to the same scrutiny. He is a self proclaimed (amateur) skeptic and has a website devoted to debunking alternative archeology . He mercilessly edits any information he does not agree with regardless of the facts yet does little to nothing to police things that support his own POV. Your article is a perfect example which was left in for over a week until I removed the counter arguments section, which only then prompted him to remove the whole thing. The reason I removed the counter argument section was because, among other things, it was wholly the opinion of the editor, you I guess, without sources. Its one thing to write something with verifiable sources, which need to be checked, but you can't just give your opinions. What Doug will do is give his opinions and then credit it to someone who didn't actually say or use material from a different subject, passing it off as fact, and impose it on this article as if the GP is what they were talking about when it is clear they were not. [1]
Your "pro" section, however, did include sources but because he removed it instantly there was no way to check your them. No one can argue the GP sits on the 30th parallel because it is still there and many have promoted the idea it was chosen for a reason. As an administrator, what he should have done, which is what I noted in my edit, is let the matter be discussed first before it was removed. This is what democracies do, but DougWeller for some reason believes his opinion is the only one that matters. You should be given a chance before it is removed to alter your sources and edit it. The fact you were not given this opportunity is a perfect example of the frustration you feel which is not so much Wiki rules, but the prejudices of a certain individual(s).
Doug makes this statement:"In this case I'm obviously of the opinion that Thanos wants to insert an argument that falls below our significance threshold by quite a bit and would end up basically as a way of publicising it on the web." For one, he has no idea what he is talking about, but the fact is I do not know you and did not write this article and it was I that actually edited a large portion of your article that had no sources because at first glance it obviously did not conform to Wiki rules, which is what an editor is supposed to do, but never got the opportunity to check your sources because he removed it. He "lets" it be in the article as long as there is a counter argument, which is wholly unsupported, because he apparently he agrees with it, and yet he removes the whole thing sayings its all OR because the discrediting part gets removed. Doug does not want people to know or think anything but what he wants in which he has once again shown he is not interested in fairness or truth but only in promoting his POV and censoring anything that does not blindly support it. I think Doug has proven time and again he is not objective or responsible enough to be an administrator here. I welcome you here Robert and hope you will stick around. thanos5150 Preceding comment added by () 03:43, 27 September 2008 (UTC) unsigned 24.20.80.41 talk
Yawn. We need sources discussing the significance of the location if we want to have a section on the significance of the location. Sources about the location and our comments are not. Robert understands this. And I have the greatest sympathy with him when he writes "such articles, are not of the type that I myself in my academic career am used to producing." They definitely aren't the sort of articles I would have wanted to write during my academic career, they don't give the same adrenalin rush of trying to develop new ideas. Thanos, as I'm involved, I'm giving you a lot of slack, but attacking other editors the way you are attacking me is a clear breach of . I don't expect any POV editor is going to think I'm fit to be an administrator or even an editor. That goes with the territory. Whining about me isn't going to impress anyone. How about being more constructive? I'm reinstating the section about the GP after it was built, the article needs it. You could help build that. () 14:49, 29 September 2008 (UTC) WP:CIVIL Doug Weller talk
Maybe you didn't understand Doug, my comments were directed specifically at you as an administrator, not other editors. I am not trying ot "impress" anyone, as if I care, but rather am trying to impress upon you to understand that it is not ok for you as an administrator to dominate this article based on your own POV which you have made more than clear especially when you ignore erroneous or misrepresented content you agree with. I know on some occasion you do this because you are the one who wrote it, but when an administrator, like you, consistently rejects anything that does not support their own POV regardless of the source, like Pietre or Gaspero, all the while injecting their own OR crediting sources that never actually said those things or said them in a different context, I think this is a serious problem. Wouldn't you agree? I may have a POV, but at least I keep the OR to myself and accurately represent the source provided. I would also add that I have defended the integrity of mainstream POV as much as the alternative and have made many edits to correct misleading or incorrect information. If you can't hold yourself to the same standards you impose on others with differing POV's, then yes, you are not responsible enough to be an administrator. I am going to leave you alone Doug, but you have got to take a chill pill and realize that for someone in a position of authority you need to be more objective in your edits as well as more accurate in the content you want to add.
Like I said, I saw that Robert had sources, but you removed it so quick there was no way to confirm them and didn't even get to read it entirely. Strange. () 06:30, 1 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
My removal shouldn't stop you from reading it. If you think there should be a section on the significance, then we need sources that discuss the significance -- reliable sources.
Here's the bit you are talking about:
On the Global Latitudinal Placement of the Great Pyramid
-It is of note that the Great Pyramid is almost exactly 30 degrees north, or 1/3 of the distance up from the equator to the North Pole. In light of this, several researchers have over the years suggested that the latitude placement of the pyramid was not arbitrarily selected; the most basic idea thus being that the builders deliberately sought to position the structure at precisely 30 degrees north. Though indeed, there are certain variations upon this theme.
According to an early survey conducted by Piazzi Smyth in 1865, the Great Pyramid was found to stand upon the latitude parallel of 29 Degrees, 58 Minutes, and 51 Seconds of arc north. . Though a significant deviation from an exacting 30 degrees, Smyth noted that if one were to observe the pole of the sky from the foot of the Great Pyramid, at an altitude of 30 degrees; then with the refraction of the atmosphere taken into account, it would necessitate that the structure itself was built upon the parallel of 29 Degrees, 58 Minutes, and 22 Seconds of arc north. . Under this consideration, an error in latitude placement is given of about 29 seconds of arc, or approximately 2900 feet, from the surveyed position of Smyth. Of course, the significance of such an association as noted by Smyth rests purely upon geometry, and of a supposed harmonious angular connection. There is however a second theory that does go beyond a pure geometrical association; one that links the latitude placement of the Great Pyramid directly to a well known ancient Egyptian myth involving two prominent gods of the Egyptian pantheon; namely and . [1] [2] [3] Geb Nut
Of these two noted deities under the Egyptian schema, Geb was a male god held to be representative of the earth, with Nut a goddess held to represent the sky . According to the relevant myth, at one time the earth was thought by the Egyptians to have possessed 360 days per year, but due to a coupling of these two deities, Nut became pregnant and gave birth to 5 extra days of the year to bring the total to 365 . Now, it is of note that the modern and exacting value of the earth year () is 365.2421897 days . And, dividing this value by 360, one achieves 1.014561638 for the ratio of the earth-year change. From a careful study of the position of the Great Pyramid, it is to be found that under the modern earth ellipsoid model, the small circle circumference of the earth at the latitude of the structure (parallel to the equatorial circumference), divided by the arc length up from the equator to the centre of the pyramid, is almost exactly ten times the ratio of the proposed earth year increase, being about 10.14567. The error in this particular analysis for the latitude placement is less than 60 feet ; an exceptional refinement over the noted geometrical association of Smyth. [4] [5] tropical year [6] WGS84 [7]
Besides the editorial 'it's of note', can you see the problem? And of course the last source isn't a () 12:44, 1 October 2008 (UTC) WP:RS Doug Weller talk
[] edit Astronomical observatory theory of the shaft
Closely related to the question of the 30 degree placement is the theory that the shaft leading to the so-called King's Chamber served an astronomical purpose before the Pyramid was completed.
Removing all the stone above the shaft leaves an extremely interesting structure whereby the shaft can be used to reliably sight stars. Some of these may have been used, in this theory, to spot certain prominent stars or constellations that signalled the onset of important religious and agricultural dates. In Egypt, these were closely linked because of the Nile flooding cycle.
According to this theory, the shaft was the main purpose of the structure, and the bottom half of the Great Pyramid served this astronomical purpose for many years. It was accordingly two very different projects, one to build an astronomical observatory and another to build the pyramid cap possibly generations later. After moved the important stars, which would have taken many years, the shaft was useless. Egyptians were definitely aware of such precession as were most societies that lasted long enough to see it actually occur (it's the basis of such concepts as the , etc.). Obviously the significance of an observatory at 30 degrees north exactly wouldn't be lost on experienced astronomers even today - in fact without star sighting exactly as careful and repeatable as the shaft would enable, it's probably impossible to discover you are at 30 degrees north. stellar precession Age of Aquarius Age of Pisces
The geometry of the shaft can neutrally be said to point at certain stars as of the dates of its construction, and so this theory can be discussed without seeming to validate any theory other than the one explicitly raised.
You mean hypothesis, but in any case, this page is not for discussing the Great Pyramid but for discussion of the article and how to improve it using reliable, verifiable sources. Please concentrate on that, not on the pyramid itself. Thanks. () 05:54, 28 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
[] edit Section on Thieves, tourists and excavators
Thanos, now what do you want? Why have you removed a sourced section? You know our opinion of truth doesn't count here, only good sources, which I have. What does this mean? "Tyldesley, 2007 p.38 is cited but what is a "Tyldesley". This section, with help, should cover the history of the GP after its construction. Now you may think it wasn't looted before the Arabs, but my sources, and I'm sure I can find more, say they all were. I don't know why this is so contentious, but it feels as though it has to do more with me than anything else. () 13:17, 1 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Doug, I promise you I did not remove it to spite you and quite frankly could care what you do as long as you are objective and honest.
For one, a section "Thieves, Tourists, and Excavators makes as much sense as a section about "apples, oranges and unicorns". To be constructive, I would suggest separating tourists from excavators, relating it to modern tourism today; visitors per year, evolution of the site as a tourist destination, future plans if any, the effect of modern pollution, ect. I would also point out there is a 2 story Pizza Hut/KFC directly across the road in front of the Sphinx which provides a surreal yet spectacular view. There's also a golf course right over the edge of the plateau by the GP which also gives a spectacular and unique view. I would also suggest the focus of excavators be on early excavation as this is more relevant to its history.
Anyhoo, what you are amazingly saying here is that it doesn't matter if something is true just as long as somebody says it that you can quote despite the fact you offer no evidence to support these source's claims saying it is my job as opposition to provide evidence to the contrary. I fail to see why the onus is on me to disprove a false positive when the burden all along is on you to provide the evidence in the first place. Two guys saying "all the pyramids were robbed" is hardly evidence. You cite Tyldesley as well, but the quote you give (stated as fact and not offered as the opinion of the authors which I have changed) is only the opinion of the 2 authors and not her. Unless she says exactly the same thing or has some new information to add I fail to see why she is relevant unless you want to strengthen your opinion by including more than one source to say "some suggest" instead of just those 2 guys. Her book is not about specifically about the GP so I suspect whatever her statement is in a general statement in passing as well with no evidence to back up her claim either.
I removed this before with the Backie quote is because you just made up the text and attributed to Backie who didn't even say what you wrote. Your solution was to find other sources to say the same thing which they really don't and offer no evidence to support their claims in which neither is directly related to the GP. What you need to provide here Doug is a direct quote from a qualified source that says specifically the Great Pyramid was looted PRIOR to the Arabs. This source also needs to give evidence or opinion such as how and where they broke in and the evidence that remains. I'm sure you will find many sources that say "all the pyramids were robbed", or the Great Pyramid must have been looted before the Arab's because we know as a fact they found nothing inside, but find me just one that says the GP was robbed prior to the Arabs with evidence to support this claim. Otherwise, anything less is irrelevant.
As to evidence against the GP being looted before the Arabs, among many others, we have the written stories of the Arabs themselves (which can be quoted at length) as well as the actual site which is seen by 100's of thousands of people every year. There are now 2 entrances to the GP: the original entrance unknown to the Arabs at the time they broke in and the entrance the Arabs made, which is the entrance tourists use today. The Arabs tunneled in several meters and heard a loud noise of blocks shifting above them which led them to believe there was a chamber or opening above. They turned their tunnel upwards in hopes of meeting up with this opening and eventually made their way to the original entrance shaft. Much to their chagrin however, the shaft was blocked by impenetrable massive granite plugs denying any access to what was beyond it. Their solution was to tunnel around the plugs through the softer limestone in which they met up with the shaft on the other side leading to the Grand Gallery. They were even more bummed to find there was absolutely nothing inside. No pharaoh, no gold, nothing. So the evidence as it now stands, is that other than the original opening that is still blocked FROM THE INSIDE by massive granite plugs, the only other entrance into the GP and around those granite plugs, as documented by the Arabs, is what they made. So, your quote needs to provide someone that will actually say specifically how the GP was entered prior to the Arabs and what evidence remains of this. It also must be noted that several pyramids have been found undisturbed since they were completed and the "sarcophagus" inside opened for the first time by modern excavators only to find nothing inside. () 21:59, 2 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
I've been through this before with someone saying that a reliable source has to be verified or explained or justified. I gave three sources basically to make you happy. Tyldesley is writing specifically about the GP. Go to the reliable sources noticeboard if you don't like my sources. I'm not saying that it doesn't matter if something is true or not, I'm saying that this is an encyclopedia whose goal is to report what reputable and verifiable sources have to say, not a forum for arguing about 'the truth', very often an elusive and sometimes an impossible goal. Your comments and edits, on the other hand, do seem to be trying to prove that the pyramids were not tombs and that their construction was beyond what one could reasonably expect of the population. If those are not your beliefs, I apologise, but that is how I read your edits and talk page comments. Btw, what OK pyramids were found undisturbed? () 06:24, 3 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Kathryn Bard believes that "most of the Old Kingdom pyramids were probably robbed after the collapse of the state in the First Intermediate Period." We can only use what reliable sources have to say, and you are welcome to add any reliable/verifiable sources that say the opposite. () 13:23, 3 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
The 3 sources are so general though, wouldn't you agree? I was really hoping for something more substantial. They do say it, but lets be honest, its really meaningless and like I said, you could probably find 100 that say the same thing in which all they are doing is getting general information from another source and repeating it. A more accurate assessment of the facts would be: "though Egytologists believe that most of the Old Kingdom pyramids were probably robbed after the collapse of the state in the First Intermediate Period" (source, source), it is still unclear how or if the interior of the GP was penetrated prior to the Arabs who upon entering found nothing blah, blah, blah." To Bard's credit, note she says "most" and "probably" which is a far cry from the definitive "all were robbed". Isn't it important to explain how the GP was supposedly robbed before the Arabs or at least acknowledge that the question exists? The only reason Egyptologists say the GP was robbed prior to the Arabs, and I stress only, is because when the Arabs entered the GP they found nothing, ergo to Egyptologists this must mean that someone else got their first. The problem, however, is that this is not supported by the facts not just for the GP but for ALL the pyramids. This is a perfect example of how a theory unsupported if not contradicted by the direct evidence is repeated by enough "experts" that it becomes "fact". Like the pyramids were built as tombs. Off the top of my head, one of the smaller pyramids near Meidum was found undisturbed and I know a few others of note were found elsewhere.
Yes, for the record I am of the opinion the GP was not built as a tomb and that the builders employed methods currently unknown to us. And also for the record, I do not believe it was built by aliens or Jesus. I have traveled all over the world studying megalithic ruins, including several sites in Egypt, so my opinions are tempered with experience and 1st hand knowledge beyond just what I have read in a book. Regardless, it's a strange thing to have to provide evidence the GP was not built as a tomb when no evidence exists it or any other pyramid was ever was a tomb if only to the contrary. () 19:11, 4 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
We can only report what reliable sources say, so " it is still unclear how or if the interior of the GP was penetrated prior to the Arabs who upon entering found nothing blah, blah, blah." unless it can be sourced is OR. What smaaller pyramid near Meidum? OK? MK? I never thought you believed aliens or Jesus were involved, just that you don't seem to think the AE could have done it with the abilities we know they had. () 21:17, 4 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
I'm not the OR type, but when I get the time, finding an opposing view or at least a sober qualifying statement will not be too hard. That's why I would rather you not even go this route because in the end the point will be moot. Tyldesley's statement is bunk. They know there was nothing there before the Arabs, but when no evidence exists to support forced entry prior to them how can you say you "know" just because there was nothing in there? Also, I am curious: why is it looters have stolen the dead bodies of every pharaoh supposedly buried in a pyramid yet this is rarely the case at other grave sites? No one want bones. And also, here you have someone who is a living God able to mobilize an entire country to build his tomb, the most amazing thing ever built in that age or any other (and picture it when it was finished), yet all he's worried about is that no one steals his stuff after he's dead? Really? I could go on. I'm sorry, but the tomb and tomb only thing is about as stupid as could be if only as a matter of common sense. Anyhoo, one starts with an "S". I don't mean to leave you hanging, I just need the time to find it for you. We know how the AE likely built many of their large monuments, as most any other ancient culture, but there is a point given the optical tolerances and precision and weight of the stones among other things where any proposed model is insufficient. Bigger ramps, more rollers or more workers do not solve these problems. I will be traveling to China next week to view the Chinese pyramids of X'ian (among other things) so I won't be catting around here for a while. I know, don't be sad. () 17:13, 7 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
Have a good time, I'm jealous. Pyramids were far more than tombs. And a lot of body parts have been found in OK pyramids, including perhaps Sneferu's mummy in the Red Pyramid. I don't understand the bit about him worrying about stealing his stuff, unless you mean that you don't think either that we have a clue about Egyptian religion, or that Egyptian kings (not Pharaohs at that point) didn't take it seriously. () 18:29, 7 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
Light dawns. Are you asking why they stole mummies? Because there were valuable objects, eg precious stones, in the wrappings. () 18:32, 7 October 2008 (UTC) Doug Weller talk
It will be interesting. One more site to mark of the list. Remains have been found in a few OK pyramids, but have often proven to be later intrusions or at best unceremoniously not a pharaoh. I have yet to see any serious takers on the idea the body in the red pyramid was actually Snefuru. There is also no sarcophagus there and as Egytologists tell us he built at least 3 pyramids. Seems a bit overkill to build 3 tombs for yourself. I have to say, regardless of the smell which for some reason is nasty, I found the interior of the Red Pyramid very fascinating from a technical perspective. Its hard to walk out of there without the feeling it did not serve a technologically functional purpose. Like the GP, which is very similar. The 2 definitely seem connected in some way. No, I'm not saying we don't understand Egyptian religion, but we are also talking about the OK and not the MK which times were much different. My point is that if the pyramid building pharaoh had to go to such lengths to protect against looters, with literally no success, then obviously no one took them seriously. Seems a bit at odds with a culture capable of building such massive complexes in a stable society who supposedly revered their kings as gods. Why steal the whole body when you can just take whatever was there out of the wrappings, but regardless, I didn't think this was the practice as the objects were placed on the outside of the mummy. At least that is all that I have seen. () 18:24, 8 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
With all respect, it takes some effort to ignore the fact that a large sarcophagus is placed in the GP until this day, even showing clear signs of being opened, exactly at the edge where you would start to place a crowbarish tool regarding to the relative position of the sarcophagus in the chamber. Any attempt to give this structure a different meaning should be very convincing to be taken serious. You also ignore the fact that the pyramids stand in a field of graves of the respective pharaos' royal suite, and that all ancient sources refer to the pyramids as "tombs of kings" in one way or the other. There is nothing at odds here given the time frame of several thousand years with all the intermittent political chaos happening every now and then. Grave robberies have happened at all times, even the grave of Khufus mother seems to be relocated after her burial. People are and have been the same forever, there never were "happy times" with no crime. The builders knew that robbery attempts were likely, they did not know wether a gigantic building would prevent that. History has already shown to the AE that it doesn't work, hence the hidden graves in later times.Preceding comment added by () 18:07, 17 January 2009 (UTC) unsigned 80.171.18.221 talk
[] edit Weight/Mass of the GP
The article now has the claim that 807.6 tonnes of stone would have to be installed daily to complete the pyramid within 20 years. If it is going to have such an exact figure, then it needs an equally exact measurement of the weight/mass of the pyramid itself, something that I don't think exists. But clearly we can't have the output without an accurate input... and I've found an engineer who thinks it could have been done in a year and comfortably in less than 5 years (I hasten to add I have no idea how he gets these figures and am not suggesting he is correct, but he is published!). () 13:30, 3 October 2008 (UTC) [2] Doug Weller talk
As I mentioned in the costruction time frame section above It is just a matter of math. I didn't mean to imply that it was exact I just didn't round the numbers. I have changed it to say it is based on the figures stated and that it is aproximate. The input is simple if a few facts can be confirmed. HxWxD/3 minus the volume of the chambers = volume of pyramid. Multiply by density and you have weight. Er sounds simple but getting these exact figures is another story. The 65 years given by Manetho was posted on 's page, I'm not sure of the source on that. I am curious to know about the internal hillock though this is the first I heard of it. How do they know it exists? "in a year and comfortably in less than 5 years" The whole pyramid? I'd be sceptical of this source unless he did a damn good job showing the work and it was replicated. I can site at least 5 published sources that imply a much more difficult time building it and most of them do a fair job showing the work. They don't specificaly adress the great pyramid but they do adress moving colossal stones. khufu
() 04:48, 4 October 2008 (UTC) Zacherystaylor talk
I don't believe the year thing, I was just amused and amazed to discover it! I think I've persuaded someone I know to buy it and report on it. The knoll is reported in various places, I'll find some more info on it but maybe not until later today. I think one problem is the density, eg there are some sand filled chambers, but we aren't sure how many. Then there is a lot of mortar. )The GP, like those built by Sneferu, consisted of casing and core stones, laid in horizontal courses, with packing blocks in between. Large quantities of gypsum mortar were poured into the often wide interstices between the core stones" (TCP p.109
. I've seen a calculation of 5 million tons based on these aspects. Complicated. See Maat. () 05:49, 4 October 2008 (UTC)"A pyramid is basically, two separate constructions: it's an outer shell of very fine polished limestone with great accuracy in its joints, but most of that's missing; and the other construction is the inner core, which filled in this shell. Since most of the outer casing is missing what you see now is the step-like structure of the core. The core was made with a substantial slop factor, as my friend who is a mechanic likes to say about certain automobiles. That is, they didn't join the stones very accurately. You have great spaces between the stones. And you can actually see where the men were up there and they didn't, you know, they may have like four or five, even six inches between two stones. And so they'd jam down pebbles and cobbles and some broken stones, and slop big quantities of gypsum mortar in there." (from an interview with Mark Lehner on Nova Online) Doug Weller talk
The 5 million ton estimate would lower daily production to just over 660 tons per day for the 20 year period or 210 million tons per day for the 65 year period. I'm not pretending I can explain this but the official version just doesn't seem to make sense therefore I think it is a good idea to consider other explanation without going off the deep end as some do. Going to extremes in either direction is just a waste of time. The Palace of Senecherib at Ninevah used a combination of Mud brick and stone to build an enormous foundation it could be simalar to that for all I know but that isn't what anyone who examined the pyramid seems to be claiming so I doubt it. Angkor and Borobudur both used excesive amounts of sand and they are washing away. That doesn't seem to be happening here and it's much older. The experts that examine it aren't claiming either of these have happened in Egypt. There's an explanation for it but for now all I can think of is to try to narrow it down and hopefully someone will figure it out.
() 05:57, 5 October 2008 (UTC) Zacherystaylor talk
According to Rainer Stadelmann, based on quarry marks found on the blocks, they have deduced it took at least 17 years to build the Red Pyramid . Doug-you quote Romer as saying it took 10 years and yet I can't find any source from Stadelmann that says anything less than 17. On the Red Pyramid page, maybe you, quote Romer at 10yrs which is what his book says, but your GP reference says 14yrs. Regardless, I would think Stadelmann would be the clear authority here over Romer in which Romer gets his data directly from Stadelmann. [3] [4]
Logistically, if it took 17 years to build the smaller less precise and complicated Red Pyramid at the hand of a much more prominent pharaoh, what is the likelihood of completing the GP in 20 under Khufu let alone the 14years Lehner suggests? Also what must be considered is that in the 70 or so years allotted between the rule of Khufu and Menkuare, the entire Giza plateau was supposed to have been completed: 3 pyramids, the Sphinx, causeways, temples, boat pits, satellite pyramids and structures, not to mention square miles of massive paving stones. Also during this time they built the Al Wadi dam which is millions of cubic tons and they say the missing pyramid Abu Rawash as well. If you removed the 3rd party sourced King's list from the equation, which is the only thing that dictates the time of completion for the monuments, I doubt there would be much of an argument that the construction of the GP was well beyond 20 years using the tools and methods available to the Egyptians at the time. () 23:00, 8 October 2008 (UTC) Thanos5150 talk
[] edit Photo requests
It would be neat to see the casing stones and the concavity of the sides. -- () 02:19, 17 December 2008 (UTC) Beland talk
I have added an image to the page, if this is not what you are looking for please reinsert the reqphoto again. () 15:07, 19 December 2008 (UTC) Traveler100 talk