For other persons named Richard Burton, see . Richard Burton (disambiguation)
Sir Richard Francis Burton
Sir Richard Burton, portrait by , Frederic Leighton National Portrait Gallery
Born
(1861-1890) Isabel Burton
(19 March 1821 20 October 1890) was an English , , writer, , , , , poet, , and . He was known for his travels and explorations within Asia and Africa as well as his extraordinary knowledge of languages and cultures. According to one count, he spoke 29 European, Asian, and African languages. Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton KCMG FRGS explorer translator soldier orientalist ethnologist linguist hypnotist fencer diplomat [1]
Burton's best-known achievements include traveling in disguise to , making an unexpurgated translation of (the collection is more commonly called in English because of 's abridgement) and the and journeying with as the first Europeans, guided by Omani merchants who traded in the region, to visit the of Africa in search of the source of the . He was a prolific author and wrote numerous books and scholarly articles about subjects including travel, fencing and ethnography. Mecca The Book of One Thousand Nights and A Night The Arabian Nights Andrew Lang Kama Sutra John Hanning Speke Great Lakes Nile
He was a captain in the army of the serving in India (and later, briefly, in the ). Following this he was engaged by the to explore the east coast of Africa and led an expedition guided by the locals which discovered . In later life he served as British in , and, finally, . He was a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and was awarded a () in 1886. East India Company Crimean War Royal Geographical Society Lake Tanganyika consul Fernando Po Damascus Trieste knighthood KCMG
Contents
13 External links
[] edit Early life and education (1822 1841)
Burton was born in , , at 21:30 on 19 March 1821; in his autobiography, he erroneously claimed to have been born in the family home at Barham House in in . He was baptised on 2 September 1821 at Elstree Church in , Hertfordshire. His father, Joseph Netterville Burton, 36th Regiment, was an Irish-born officer of Anglo-Irish extraction, the son of the Rev. Edward Burton, a clergyman from , England, and an Irish mother. His mother, Martha Baker, was the heiress of a wealthy , Richard Baker. Burton had two siblings, Maria Katherine Elizabeth Burton and Edward Joseph Netterville Burton, born in 1823 and 1824, respectively. Torquay Devon Elstree Hertfordshire [2] [3] Borehamwood [4] Lieutenant Colonel British army Church of Ireland Westmorland Hertfordshire squire [5]
Burton's family travelled considerably during his childhood. In 1825, his family moved to , France. Burton's early education was provided by various tutors employed by his parents. He first began a formal education in 1829 at a preparatory school on in run by Rev. Charles Delafosse. Over the next few years, his family travelled between England, France and Italy. Burton showed an early gift for languages and quickly learned French, Italian, , and , as well as several dialects. During his youth, he was rumoured to have carried on an affair with a young (Gypsy) woman, even learning the rudiments of her language. The peregrinations of his youth may have encouraged Burton to regard himself as an outsider for much of his life. As he put it, "Do what thy manhood bids thee do, from none but self expect applause..." Tours Richmond Green Richmond, London [6] Neapolitan Latin Roma [7]
Richard Francis matriculated at , on 19 Nov. 1840. Before getting rooms in college, he lived for a short time in the house of Dr. , then physician to the Radcliffe Infirmary. Here he met , whose churchwarden Dr. Greenhill was. Despite his intelligence and ability, Richard Francis soon antagonized his teachers and peers. During his first term, he is said to have challenged another student to a after the latter mocked Burton's moustache. Burton continued to gratify his love of languages by studying ; he also spent his time learning and fencing. In 1842, he attended a in deliberate violation of college rules and subsequently dared to tell the college authorities that students should be allowed to attend such events. Hoping to be merely "" that is, suspended with the possibility of reinstatement, the punishment of some less provocative students who had visited the steeplechase he was instead permanently expelled from Trinity College. In a final jab at the environment he had come to despise, Burton reportedly trampled the College's flower beds with his horse and carriage while departing Oxford. Trinity College Oxford William Alexander Greenhill John Henry Newman duel Arabic falconry steeplechase rusticated
[] edit Army career (1842 1853)
In his own words "fit for nothing but to be shot at for six pence a day", Burton enlisted in the army of the at the behest of his ex-college classmates who were already members. He hoped to fight in the but the conflict was over before he arrived in India. He was posted to the 18th Bombay Native Infantry based in and under the command of General Sir . While in India he became a proficient speaker of , , and as well as and . His studies of culture had progressed to such an extent that "my Hindu teacher officially allowed me to wear the Janeu ()" although the truth of this has been questioned since it would usually have required long study, fasting and a partial shaving of the head. Burton's interest (and active participation) in and was considered peculiar by some of his fellow soldiers who accused him of "going native" and called him "the White Nigger". Burton had many peculiar habits that set him apart from other soldiers. While in the army, he kept a large of tame in the hopes of . He also earned the name for his "demonic ferocity as a fighter and because he had fought in single combat more enemies than perhaps any other man of his time." [8] East India Company first Afghan war Gujarat Charles James Napier Hindustani Gujarati Panjabi Marathi Persian Arabic Hindu Brahmanical Thread [9] the cultures religions of India menagerie monkeys learning their language [10] "Ruffian Dick" [11]
He was appointed to the survey, where he learned to use the measuring equipment that would later be useful in his career as an explorer. At this time he began to travel in . He adopted the alias of Mirza Abdullah and often fooled local people and fellow officers into failing to recognise him. It was at this point that he began to work as an agent for Napier and, although details of exactly what this work entailed are not known, it is known that he participated in an undercover investigation of a in said to be frequented by English soldiers where the prostitutes were young boys. His life-long interest in sexual practices led him to produce a detailed report which was later to cause trouble for Burton when subsequent readers of the report (which Burton had been assured would be kept secret) came to believe that Burton had, himself, participated in some of the practices described within his writing. Sindh disguise brothel Karachi
In March 1849 he returned to Europe on sick leave. In 1850 he wrote his first book , a guide to the region. He travelled to to visit the fencing school there and it was there where he first encountered his future wife , a young woman from a good family.Goa and the Blue Mountains Goa Boulogne Isabel Arundell Catholic
[] edit First explorations and journey to Mecca (1851 1853)
Burton in Arabic dress.
Motivated by his love of adventure, Burton got the approval of the for an exploration of the area and he gained permission from the Board of Directors of the to take leave from the army. His seven years in India gave Burton a familiarity with the customs and behaviour of and prepared him to attempt a (pilgrimage to and, in this case, ). It was this journey, undertaken in 1853, which first made Burton famous. He had planned it whilst travelling disguised among the Muslims of Sindh, and had laboriously prepared for the ordeal by study and practice (including being to further lower the risk of being discovered). Royal Geographical Society British East India Company Muslims Hajj Mecca Medina circumcised
Although Burton was not the first non-Muslim European to make the ( in 1503 is believed to hold that distinction), his pilgrimage is the most famous and the best documented of the time. He adopted various disguises including that of a to account for any oddities in speech, but he still had to demonstrate an understanding of intricate Islamic , and a familiarity with the minutiae of Eastern manners and etiquette. Burton's trek to Mecca was quite dangerous and his caravan was attacked by bandits (a common experience at the time). As he put it, although "...neither or enjoin the death of Jew or Christian intruding within the columns that note the sanctuary limits, nothing could save a European detected by the populace, or one who after pilgrimage declared himself an unbeliever." The pilgrimage entitled him to the title of and to wear green head wrap. Burton's own account of his journey is given in (1855).Hajj Ludovico di Barthema [12] Pashtun ritual Koran Sultan [13] Hajji A Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al-Medinah and Meccah
Some members of his entourage suspected there was more to Burton than met the eye. He came close to being discovered one night when he lifted his robe to urinate, rather than squatting as an Arab would. He thought he was unseen, but the youngest member of his group happened to see him. The lad accused him of being an imposter, but let Burton convince him to keep his doubts to himself. [14]
When Burton returned to the British Army he sat for examination as an Arab linguist - and failed. [15]
[] edit Early explorations (1854 1855)
Following his return to Cairo from Mecca, Burton sailed to India to rejoin his regiment. In March 1854, he transferred to the political department of the East India Company and went to Aden on the Arabian Peninsula in order to prepare for a new expedition, supported by the Royal Geographical Society, to explore the interior of the Somali Country and beyond, where Burton hoped to discover the large lakes he had heard about from Arab travelers. It was in Aden in September of this year that he first met Captain (then Lieutenant) who would accompany him on his most famous exploration. Burton undertook the first part of the trip alone. He made an expedition to (in present day Ethiopia), which no European had entered (indeed there was a prophecy that the city would decline if a Christian was admitted inside). This leg of the expedition lasted three months, although much of the time was spent in the port of , where Burton, once again in disguise, awaited word that the road to Harar was safe. Burton not only travelled to Harar but also was introduced to the Emir and stayed in the city for ten days, officially a guest of the Emir but in reality his prisoner. The journey back was plagued by lack of supplies, and Burton wrote that he would have died of thirst had he not seen desert birds and realised they would be near water. John Hanning Speke Harar Zeila
Following this adventure, he prepared to set out for the interior accompanied by Lieutenant Speke, Lieutenant G. E. Herne and Lieutenant William Stroyan and a number of Africans employed as bearers. However, before the expedition was able to leave camp, his party was attacked by a group of Somali tribesmen (the officers estimated the number of attackers at 200). In the ensuing fight, Stroyan was killed and Speke was captured and wounded in eleven places before he managed to escape. Burton was impaled with a javelin, the point entering one cheek and exiting the other. This wound left a notable scar that can be easily seen on portraits and photographs. He was forced to make his escape with the weapon still transfixing his head. However, the failure of this expedition was viewed harshly by the authorities, and a two-year investigation was set up to determine to what extent Burton was culpable for this disaster. While he was largely cleared of any blame, this did not help his career. He describes the harrowing attack in (1856).First Footsteps in East Africa
In 1855, Burton rejoined the army and travelled to the hoping to see active service in the . He served on the staff of a corps of , local fighters under the command of General Beatson, in the . The corps was disbanded following a "mutiny" after they refused to obey orders and Burton's name was mentioned (to his detriment) in the subsequent inquiry. Crimea Crimean War Beatson's Horse Bashi-bazouks Dardanelles
[] edit Exploring the lakes of central Africa (1856 1860)
Routes taken by the expeditions of Burton and (1857 1858) and and (1863).
Speke Speke Grant
In 1856 the funded another expedition in which Burton set off from to explore an "inland sea" that had been described by Arab traders and slavers. His mission was to study local tribes and to find out what exports might be possible from the region. It was hoped that the expedition might lead to the discovery of the source of the , although this was not an explicit aim. Burton had been told that only a fool would say his expedition aimed to find the source of the Nile because anything short of that would be regarded as a failure. Royal Geographical Society Zanzibar River Nile
Before leaving for Africa, Burton became secretly engaged to . Her family, particularly her mother, would not allow a marriage since Burton was not a Catholic and was not wealthy, although in time the relationship would become tolerated. Isabel Arundell
Speke again accompanied him and on the 27 June 1857 they set out from the east coast of Africa heading west in search of the lake or lakes. They were helped greatly by the Omani Arabs who lived and traded in the region. They followed the traditional caravan routes, hiring the professional porters and guides, who had been making similar treks for years. From the start the outward journey was beset with problems such as recruiting reliable bearers and the defalcation of equipment and supplies by deserting expedition members. Both men were beset by a variety of tropical diseases on the journey. Speke was rendered blind for some of the journey and deaf in one ear (due to an infection caused by attempts to remove a beetle). Burton was unable to walk for some of the journey and had to be carried by the bearers.
The expedition arrived at in February 1858. Burton was awestruck by the sight of the magnificent lake, but Speke, who had been temporarily blinded by a disease, was unable to see the body of water. By this point much of their surveying equipment was lost, ruined, or stolen, and they were unable to complete surveys of the area as well as they wished. Burton was again taken ill on the return journey and Speke continued exploring without him, making a journey to the north and eventually locating the great , or Victoria Nyanza. Lacking supplies and proper instruments Speke was unable to survey the area properly but was privately convinced that it was the long sought source of the Nile. Burton's description of the journey is given in (1860). Speke gave his own account in (1863). Lake Tanganyika Lake Victoria Lake Regions of Equatorial AfricaThe Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the Nile [16]
Both Burton and Speke were in extremely poor health after the journey and returned home separately. As usual Burton kept very detailed notes, not just on the geography but also on the languages, customs and even sexual habits of the people he encountered. Although it was Burton's last great expedition his geographical and cultural notes were to prove invaluable for subsequent explorations by Speke and , Sir , and . Speke and Grant's (1863) exploration began on the east coast near Zanzibar again and went around the west side of Lake Victoria to and finally returning in triumph via the Nile River. However, crucially, they had lost track of the river's course between Lake Victoria and Albert. This left Burton, and others, unsatisfied that the source of the Nile was conclusively proven. James Augustus Grant Samuel Baker David Livingstone Henry Morton Stanley Lake Albert
[] edit Burton and Speke
Lake Tanganyika photographed from orbit. Burton was the first European to see the lake.
Burton and Speke's exploration to Lake Tanganyika and Lake Victoria was, arguably, his most celebrated exploration but what followed was a prolonged public quarrel between the two men, which severely damaged Burton's reputation. From surviving letters it seems that Speke already mistrusted and disliked Burton before the start of their second expedition. There are several reasons why they became estranged. It seems obvious that the two men were very different in character, with Speke being more in tune with the prevailing and imperialistic attitude to other cultures. There was obviously a great element of professional rivalry. Some biographers have suggested that friends of Speke (particularly ) stirred up trouble between the two. It also seems that Speke resented Burton's position as expedition leader and claimed that this leadership was nominal only and that Burton was an invalid for most of the second expedition. There were problems with debts run up by the expedition that were left unpaid when they left Africa. Speke claimed that Burton had sole responsibility for these debts. Finally, there was the issue of the source of the Nile, perhaps the greatest prize of its day to explorers. It is now known that is a source, but at the time the issue was controversial. Speke's expedition there was undertaken without Burton (who was incapacitated by several illnesses at the time) and his survey of the area was, by necessity, rudimentary, leaving the issue unresolved. Burton (and indeed many eminent explorers such as ) were very sceptical that the lake was the genuine source. morality of Victorian England Laurence Oliphant Lake Victoria Livingstone
After the expedition, the two men travelled home to England separately with Speke arriving in London first. Despite an agreement between them that they would give their first public speech together, Speke gave a lecture at the in which he made the claim that his discovery, Lake Victoria, was the source of the Nile. When Burton arrived in London he found Speke being lionised, and felt his own role was being considered as that of sickly companion. Furthermore, Speke was organising other expeditions to the region and clearly had no plans to include Burton. Royal Geographical Society
In the subsequent months, Speke did much to attempt to harm Burton's reputation, even going so far as to claim that Burton had tried to poison him during the expedition. Meanwhile Burton spoke out against Speke's claim to have discovered the source of the Nile, saying that the evidence was inconclusive and the measurements made by Speke were inaccurate. It is notable that in Speke's expedition with Grant he made Grant sign a statement saying, amongst other things, "I renounce all my rights to publishing... my own account [of the expedition] until approved of by Captain Speke or the R. G. S. (Royal Geographical Society)". [17]
Speke and Grant undertook a second expedition to prove that Lake Victoria was the true source of the Nile, but again, problems with surveying and measurement meant not everybody was satisfied the issue had been resolved. On 16 September 1864 Burton and Speke were due to debate the issue of the source of the Nile in front of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at that body's annual meeting in Bath. Burton was regarded as the superior public speaker and scholar and was likely to get the better of such a debate. However, the previous day Speke died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound while hunting on a relative's nearby estate. There were no witnesses to the shooting and it has been speculated by some, without any evidence, that Speke committed suicide; however, the coroner declared it to be a hunting accident. Burton was at the debate hall in Bath waiting to give his presentation when the news of Speke's death arrived and, considerably shaken, he elected not to give his planned talk.
[] edit Diplomatic service, scholarship, and death (1861 1890)
Richard and Isabel Burton's tomb at Mortlake, Surrey.
Close up of inscription on the tomb.
In January 1861, Richard and Isabel married in a quiet Catholic ceremony although he did not adopt the Catholic faith at this time. Shortly after this, the couple were forced to spend some time apart when he formally entered the Foreign Service as at , the modern island of Bioko in . This was not a prestigious appointment; because the climate was considered extremely unhealthy for Europeans, Isabel could not accompany him. Burton spent much of this time exploring the coast of . consul Fernando Po Equatorial Guinea West Africa
The couple were reunited in 1865 when Burton was transferred to in . Once there, Burton traveled through Brazil's central highlands, canoeing down the from its source to the falls of . Santos Brazil Sao Francisco river Paulo Afonso [18]
In 1869 he was made consul in , an ideal post for someone with Burton's knowledge of the region and customs. However, Burton made many enemies during his time there. He managed to antagonize much of the population of the area because of a dispute concerning money lending. It had been the practice for the British consulate to take action against those who defaulted on loans but Burton saw no reason to continue this practice and this caused a great deal of hostility. He and Isabel greatly enjoyed their time there and befriended , the well-known adventurer, and al-Jazairi, a prominent leader of the Algerian revolution then living in exile. Damascus Jewish Lady Jane Digby Abd al-Kader
However, the area was in some turmoil at the time with considerable tensions between the Christian, Jewish and Muslim populations. Burton did his best to keep the peace and resolve the situation but this sometimes led him into trouble. On one occasion, he claims to have escaped an attack by hundreds of armed horsemen and camel riders sent by Mohammed Rashid Pasha, the Governor of Syria. He wrote "I have never been so flattered in my life than to think it would take three hundred men to kill me." [19]
In addition to these incidents, there were a number of people who disliked Burton and wished him removed from such a sensitive position. Eventually, to resolve the situation, Burton was transferred to (then part of ) during 1871. Burton was never particularly content with this post but it required little work and allowed him the freedom to write and travel. Trieste Austria-Hungary
In 1863 Burton co-founded the with Dr. James Hunt. In Burton's own words, the main aim of the society (through the publication of the periodical ) was "to supply travellers with an organ that would rescue their observations from the outer darkness of manuscript and print their curious information on social and sexual matters". On 5 February 1886 he was awarded a knighthood () by . Anthropological Society of London Anthropologia KCMG Queen Victoria
He wrote a number of travel books in this period that were not particularly well received. His best-known contributions to literature were those considered risqu or even pornographic at the time and which were published under the auspices of the Kama Shastra society. These books include (1883) (popularly known as the ), (1885) (popularly known as ), (1886) and (sixteen volumes 1886 1898).The Kama Sutra of Vatsyayana Kama Sutra The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night The Arabian Nights The Perfumed Garden of the Shaykh NefzawiThe Supplemental Nights to the Thousand Nights and a Night
Published in this period, but composed on his return journey from Mecca, has been cited as evidence of Burton's status as a . The poem (and Burton's notes and commentary on it) contain layers of Sufic meaning, and seem to have been designed to project Sufi teaching in the West. "Do what thy manhood bids thee do/ from none but self expect applause;/ He noblest lives and noblest dies/ who makes and keeps his self-made laws" is 's most oft-quoted passage. The Kasidah [20] Sufi [21] The Kasidah
Other works of note include a collection of Hindu tales, (1870); and his uncompleted history of , (1884). He also translated , the national epic by , in 1880 and wrote a sympathetic of the poet and adventurer the next year. The book was published posthumously in 1898 and was controversial since it was virulently in tone and asserted the existence of . (Burton's investigations into this had provoked hostility from the Jewish population in Damascus, see . The manuscript of the book included an appendix discussing the topic in more detail, but by the decision of his widow it was not included in the book when published).Vikram and the Vampire swordsmanship The Book of the Sword The Lusiads Portuguese Lu s de Cam es biography The Jew, the Gipsy and el Islam anti-Semitic Jewish human sacrifices Damascus affair
Burton died in Trieste early on the morning of 20 October 1890 of a heart attack. His wife Isabel persuaded a priest to perform the last rites, although Burton was not a Catholic and this action later caused a rift between Isabel and some of Burton's friends. It has been suggested that the death occurred very late on 19 October and that Burton was already dead by the time the last rites were administered.
Isabel never recovered from the loss. After his death she burned many of her husband's papers, including journals and a planned new translation of to be called , for which she had been offered six thousand guineas and which she regarded as his "magnum opus." She believed she was acting to protect her husband's reputation, and imagined she was instructed to burn the manuscript of by his spirit, but her actions have been widely condemned.The Perfumed GardenThe Scented GardenThe Scented Garden [22]
Isabel wrote a biography in praise of her husband. The couple are buried in a remarkable tomb in the shape of a Bedouin tent at in southwest . [23] Mortlake London [24]
[] edit The Kama Shastra Society
Burton had long had an interest in sexuality and erotic literature. However, the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 had resulted in many jail sentences for publishers, with prosecutions being brought by the Society for the Suppression of Vice (Burton referred to the society and those who shared its views as ). A way around this was the private circulation of books amongst the members of a society. For this reason Burton, together with , created the Kama Shastra Society to print and circulate books that would be illegal to publish in public. Mrs Grundy Forster Fitzgerald Arbuthnot
One of the most celebrated of all his books is his translation of the (more commonly known in English as because of 's abridged collection) in , (1885) with six further volumes being added later. The volumes were printed by the Kama Shashtra Society in a subscribers-only edition of one thousand with a guarantee that there would never be a larger printing of the books in this form. The stories collected were often sexual in content and were considered at the time of publication. In particular, the of the was one of the first English language texts to dare address the practice of which he postulated was prevalent in an area of the southern latitudes named by him the "." Rumors about Burton s own sexuality were already circulating and were further incited by this work.The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night The Arabian Nights Andrew Lang ten volumes pornography Terminal EssayNights pederasty Sotadic zone
Perhaps Burton's best-known book is his translation of . In fact, it is not really true that he was the translator since the original manuscript was in ancient which he could not read. However, he collaborated with on the work and provided translations from other manuscripts of later translations. The Kama Shashtra Society first printed the book in 1883 and numerous editions of the Burton translation are in print to this day. The Kama Sutra Sanskrit Forster Fitzgerald Arbuthnot
His English translation from a French edition of the Arabic erotic guide was printed as (1886). After Richard's death burnt many of his papers, including a manuscript of a subsequent translation, , containing the final chapter of the work, on . It is interesting to note that Burton all along intended for this translation to be published after his death, to provide a competence for his widow, and also, as a final gesture of defiance against Victorian society. The Perfumed Garden The Perfumed Garden of the Cheikh Nefzaoui: A Manual of Arabian Erotology Isabel The Scented Garden pederasty [25]
[] edit Scandals in the life of Richard Burton
Burton pictured later in life.
Burton's writings are unusually open and frank about his interest in and . His travel writing is often full of details about the sexual lives of the inhabitants of areas he travelled through. Burton's interest in sexuality led him to make measurements of the lengths of the sexual organs of male inhabitants of various regions which he includes in his travel books. He also describes sexual techniques common in the regions he visited, often hinting that he had participated, hence breaking both sexual and racial of his day. Many people at the time considered the Kama Shastra Society and the books it published scandalous. sex sexuality taboos
Biographers disagree on whether or not Burton ever experienced sex (he never directly acknowledges it in his writing). Allegations began in his army days when General Sir requested that Burton go undercover to investigate a male reputed to be frequented by British soldiers. It has been suggested that Burton's detailed report on the workings of the brothel may have led some to believe he had been a customer. homosexual Charles James Napier brothel [26]
Burton was accused by some of murdering the boy who caught him urinating in European fashion on the trip to . Burton denied this, pointing out that killing the boy would almost certainly have led to his being discovered as an imposter. Burton became so tired of denying this accusation that he took to baiting his accusers. A doctor once asked him, "How do you feel when you have killed a man?" Burton retorted, "Quite jolly, what about you?" When asked by a about the same incident Burton is said to have replied "Sir, I'm proud to say I have committed every sin in the ." Mecca priest Decalogue [27]
These allegations coupled with Burton's often-irascible nature were said to have harmed his career and may explain why he was not promoted further, either in army life or in the diplomatic service. As an obituary described: "...he was ill fitted to run in official harness, and he had a love of shocking people, of telling tales against himself that had no foundation in fact." reported that "Men at the FO [Foreign Office]... used to hint dark horrors about Burton, and certainly justly or unjustly he was disliked, feared and suspected... not for what he had done, but for what he was believed capable of doing..." Whatever the truth of the many allegations made against him, Burton's interests and outspoken nature ensured that he was always a controversial character in his lifetime. Byronic [28] Ouida [29]
Timeline of Richard Francis Burton's life (1821-1890)
[] edit Appearances in fiction and drama
Fiction
There is a brief reference to Burton in 's novel , which mentions Burton by name in the text but gives no information about him; when Doyle's novel was first published, Burton's exploits were comparatively recent. Arthur Conan Doyle The Lost World
, a author, featured Burton as one of several protagonists in his (1966 1993). Philip Jos Farmer science fiction Riverworld Saga
also mentions Burton repeatedly in his series (1969 2005) of historical novels (with the narrator, Flashman, usually referring to him as "that rogue Dick Burton"). George MacDonald Fraser Flashman
includes Burton in his (Scribner 2004). John Dunning detective fiction The Bookman's Promise
, , a German language novel features Richard Burton (Hanser 2006) English language translation "The Collector of Worlds" (Faber and Faber 2008). Ilija Trojanow Der Weltensammler
's novels (1997 2004) feature Burton as the discoverer of a secret alien race. The books include sections from Burton's writings. Robert Doherty Area 51
's detective novel (1859) features a character, Mr. Murthwaite, apparently based on Burton. He is "the celebrated Indian traveller, Mr. Murthwaite, who, at risk of his life, had penetrated in disguise where no European had ever set foot before" (chapter X). Wilkie Collins The Moonstone
Richard Burton appears in the novel by , in which he is portrayed as having "gone native" and taken a Martian wife. steampunk Larklight Philip Reeve
In , Burton is implied to have been a member of a . The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen novel past League
Film
(1990) (starring Irish actor as Burton) related the story of the Burton-Speke exploration and the subsequent controversy over the source of the Nile. This was based on the 1984 novel by William Harrison. Mountains of the Moon Patrick Bergin Burton and Speke
(1993) re-imagines Burton in a contemporary setting as a man obsessed with researching the hypothesis of transmission. Zero Patience closeted gay Patient Zero AIDS
Television
In (1996-1999) (starring and ) a fictional monograph attributed to Richard Burton ("the explorer, not the actor") forms the background of the show's mythology. The Sentinel Richard Burgi Garett Maggart
, 1971 BBC mini-series featured as Burton Search for the Nile Kenneth Haigh
In , Rupert Everett documents Burton's travels. Part of the Channel Four (UK) 'Victorian Passions' season. First Broadcast on 9th June 2008. The Victorian Sex Explorer [30]
[] edit Selected writings of Richard Francis Burton