ow can I become a broadcaster?/h3>
Just as there are many ways you can travel cross country, so too are there various ways to become a broadcaster. Some choices you have will lead you to your destination quicker than others, however. The name of the game is to get your foot in the door. From there, youl get to know other broadcasters and important contacts. Equally important is that other people in the broadcasting industry are getting to know you. BMG will get your foot in the door to make this possible from day one.
hat exactly does BMG do?/h3>
BMG pairs aspiring radio broadcasters with working broadcasters for training. The primary difference in our training programs is length of training. The upreme Insiderstudents will be paired with a local broadcaster in their radio station, or with a team announcer, for a three month training program, while ltra Insiderstudents will be paired with a local broadcaster for a six month training program.
You choose the specific radio station or team in your area you like to train at - and hopefully work one day. BMG then sets up your initial placement interview. If accepted for training by your Broadcasting-mentor, their station is where a major portion of your training occurs. After being placed, BMG provides you with all the training materials youl need, as well as providing you with ongoing support and oversight of your training program. We serve as the overseer of your training throughout the entire time.
hat exactly is a Broadcasting Apprenticeship?/h3>
Think of a regular apprenticeship. You sit at the foot of the master and directly learn their skills through observation, hands-on training, and discussion - all while under their watchful eye and supervision. It the same thing with a Broadcasting apprenticeship. A skilled radio broadcaster will train and guide you, either in his or her radio station or through the team they announce for - depending upon your training preferences.
ren apprenticeships really just Internships?/h3>
No, theye very different. Typically, internships are only available to currently enrolled college students. In exchange for free labor, radio stations will give college credits to student interns. Radio stations will usually assign interns where the need is greatest - which could be anything from performing administrative duties, to handing out tee-shirts or bumper stickers through their promotions department, or working as the station go-fer.
At no point in time does radio station management imply, state, or promise that interns will be trained specifically for eventual on-air broadcasting jobs. As a BMG apprentice, youe being specifically by a broadcaster to become an on-air personality or production whiz.
o you have a Broadcasting apprenticeship choolnearby me?/h3>
It depends! Do you have any radio stations nearby? Though many people think of us as a radio broadcasting school, The only rofessoryoul ever have is a working broadcaster from that station or local team.the only lassroomnbsp;BMG students ever see is the inside of a radio station. Back to top
hich radio stations do you work with in my area?/h3>
BMG works with broadcasters throughout the US and Canada. The key to your success lies in the quality of your mentor, and not necessarily in which station you train. BMG will place you with an experienced broadcaster who is well connected to the local broadcasting community.
A few things to consider:
Every radio station with a broadcaster is a candidate to work with you
Youl submit 4-6 station preferences as to where you like to train 
You choose the days and times you like to train
Wel set up an interview for you with a prospective mentor from one of your station preferences. If accepted after your interview, this is who youl train with, and the station where your training will take place.
ow often will I meet with my mentor and go into the station?/h3>
The beauty of the apprenticeship model is the training flexibility it offers you, based upon your individual schedule and availability. Most students will typically go into the station once or twice a week - sometimes more - schedule permitting. All students will also host their own internet radio show while training, which is a part of what mentors are evaluating when meeting.
ow does BMG job placement compare with other broadcasting schools?/h3>
First off, the vast majority of broadcasting schools only talk about having a job placement program. Few, if any, can actually show you what their job placement entails...because they don have a comprehensive plan for placing you in a broadcasting job.
BMG comprehensive and strategic is what separates us from ANY other radio broadcasting school or college program out there. No brag, just fact. We invite you and even encourage you - to compare and see for yourself. four step approach to job placement Back to top
ow do your costs compare with broadcasting schools?/h3>
Economic times are tough. We understand that, which is why wee the only broadcasting school or apprenticeship program that offers one training program under $3000. Realizing your dream of becoming a broadcaster shouldn have to put you in debt for years.
Equally important to cost, first Youl discover that Given that, BMG radio broadcasting apprenticeships are still $4000-$8000 less expensive than the average broadcasting school and a few thousand dollars less than other apprenticeship programs.compare the value and volume of services that BMG offers over any other radio broadcasting school.ess expensivedoesn mean ower quality
This is possible because youe not paying for the cost of running a facility, or the salary and health benefits for a large faculty.
ow much does it cost?/h3>
It depends upon which training program is a better fit for your needs and budget. Your three month upreme Insidertraining program currently cost $2997, while your six month ltra Insidertraining program currently costs $4997. Financing is available for both training programs, which will slightly increase the costs.