Activities for People Concerned About Early Memory Loss, Volume Two
By Kristin Einberger and Janelle Sellick, M.S.
>Author Bio
Excerpt
Kristin Einberger
Kristin Einberger has worked with older adults for 30 years, most of it with people with cognitive impairment. In the last few years, she has focused her time on early memory loss. She developed and facilitated two social day programs for people experiencing early memory loss and assisted in starting another. Currently, she facilitates one of these programs in Fairfield, California. She is also the program coordinator for a senior day program in Northern California.
Kristin has presented at numerous local, state, and national conferences, including the Alzheimer’s Association, Brookdale Foundation, American Society on Aging, and the California Council for Adult Education. She has partnered with Janelle Sellick to author a technical manual for the Brookdale Foundation on . In addition, she has written an activity card set titled Kristin has also written many articles on the same subject.Creating an Early Memory Loss ProgramSharpen Your Senses.
Janelle Sellick
Janelle Sellick, M.S., RTC/CTRS, has worked with people with cognitive impairment for the past 10 years, and specifically with people with early memory loss for the past 4 years. She developed and facilitated two social/educational programs for people with early memory loss and has also developed educational classes for caregivers. In addition, she has taught numerous memory enhancement classes and seminars to independent seniors.
Janelle has presented at many local, state, and national conferences, including the Alzheimer’s Association, the California Park and Recreation Society, the Brookdale Foundation, and the American Therapeutic Recreation Association. She is the author of many newsletter and magazine articles on memory loss and the author of the book . Most recently, she has partnered with Kristin Einberger to author a technical manual for the Brookdale Foundation on .Traditions: Improving Quality of Life in CaregivingCreating an Early Memory Loss Program
© Health Professions Press