Comprehensive News Feed for Publishing.
Results of in Publishing1 - 20163,772
White House Press Briefing by Dana Perino
4 min ago | NewsBlaze
MS. PERINO: Hello, everybody. I've got a couple of things for you. Today the President will meet with and deliver remarks to family members of military personnel who died in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Newspapers announce employee furloughs
4 min ago | Tulare Advance-Register
Employees of the Visalia Times-Delta and the Tulare Advance-Register learned Wednesday that they will be taking five days off, without pay, between now and the end of March.
Judge Orders Gitmo Detainee Released
12 min ago | The Post Chronicle
A federal judge in Washington ordered the release of a Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, detainee, ruling the government's evidence was too weak to confine the man.
12 min ago | The Big Lead
College Basketball , College Football , Courts, Legal , NBA , Soccer TheBigLead January 15th.
16 min ago | WOWT-TV Omaha
A Council Bluffs woman was chosen as the winner of a Hallmark Cards and card competition.
Queen promises library a large time
17 min ago | HeraldTribune.com
Published: Thursday, January 15, 2009 at 1:00 a.m. Last Modified: Wednesday, January 14, 2009 at 1:50 p.m. Women of a certain age absolutely adore Jill Conner Browne, the Sweet Potato Queen.
Inauguration security put in place
18 min ago | UPI
Federal law enforcement officials have begun sealing off a multi-ringed security zone around U.S. Capitol where President-elect Barack Obama will be sworn in.
PolitiFact.com and the Obameter: We're tracking Obama's promises
24 min ago | St. Petersburg Times
By Robert Farley and Angie Drobnic Holan, Times Staff Writers In Print: Thursday, January 15, 2009 B arack Obama made 510 promises when he was running for president, a list that is stunning in its scope and ...
Bailout funds stir new debate
26 min ago | UPI
Fourth quarter bank losses may require the U.S. government to go beyond the $700 financial bailout package, Federal Reserve officials said this week.
Report: Tribune Co. Mulling Outsourcing National, Foreign Coverage to 'Washington Post'
27 min ago | Editor & Publisher
CHICAGO Tribune Co. is in talks with The Washington Post Co. to outsource its national and international news coverage to the Post, according to a report in Thursday's Wall Street journal.
Detroit Papers Open Talks with Unions Over Job Cuts
28 min ago | Editor & Publisher
DETROIT Detroit's two newspapers have opened talks with unions over job cuts when home delivery of the Free Press and News is slashed to three days a week.
Daily Briefing
31 min ago | Windsor Beacon
Coloradoan publisher Gannett Co. Inc. imposed one-week unpaid furloughs for most of its U.S. employees Wednesday, saying the move could help minimize the need for further layoffs amid a severe advertising ...
31 min ago | BBC News
An unprecedented security operation is under way in Washington ahead of Barack Obama's inauguration as US president.
Turning to Biomass for Heat
35 min ago | New York Times
A biomass gasification boiler at Middlebury College in Vermont. Temperatures in Middlebury, Vermont, are expected to dip well below zero in the next few days.
Wake-Up Call: Pressing engagements at the Stock Show
39 min ago | Denver - News, Events, Restaurants, Music from Denver, CO - Westword
"Want to be smarter? Subscribe to the Rocky Mountain News and the Denver Post and read them for a half-hour each morning." We were on our annual rounds of the Hall of Education at the Stock Show, and stopping ...
AmSpec Official Inauguration Map
39 min ago | AmSpec Blog
Friends, you've probably wondered how on earth you were going to get through Washington, D.C. to celebrate the coronation inauguration of President-Elect Barack Hillary Obama.
Rocky Mountain News gets temporary reprieve
39 min ago | Denver - News, Events, Restaurants, Music from Denver, CO - Westword
Yesterday's blog headlined " The Latest From the Rocky Mountain News Grapevine About the Paper's Future " noted that the E.W. Scripps-owned tabloid had reported very little about its potential sale since ...