Society
Home
to the Haemochromatosis Society Australia Inc's web site! More than likely, you, a family member or friend, has recently been diagnosed with haemochromatosis and you want to find out more about the disorder. This website has been designed to allow you to choose how deeply you wish to delve into the disorder known as haemochromatosis. Below is a quick overview of haemochromatosis that we have provided to ease your mind and let you get a basic understanding of haemochromatosis.Welcome
Hereditary Haemochromatosis
Hereditary Haemochromatosis is one of the most common, yet least often diagnosed disorders affecting the population. It is more common than cystic fibrosis but less well known or diagnosed. It is the abnormal and excessive absorption of iron from food in which the excess iron is retained and deposited in various joints and organs throughout the body, in particular, the liver. Normally, the liver stores iron for the essential purpose of providing new red blood cells with iron. This is necessary for life and good health, however, when excess quantities are stored in the liver, it becomes enlarged and causes serious damage to the tissue e.g.(cirrhosis). This can subsequently lead to cancer of the liver and premature death, if the condition is not diagnosed and treated. As well as liver disease, other serious conditions can be caused by excess iron: In the general population in Australia, at least 1 person in 300 is likely to be affected by haemochromatosis during his or her lifetime. Women are equally at risk as men but the disorder tends to show up later in life for them because of the amount of iron lost through their menses and/or childbirth. However, women can be seriously affected before symptoms appear so it is important for them to have regular medical checkups. Because iron builds up slowly in the adult form of haemochromatosis, obvious symptoms may not appear until the age of 30/40 for men and later for women. Previously, it was thought that the disorder was extremely rare and the end stage of liver disease due to alcoholism, so haemochromatosis was seldom considered as a possible diagnosis where symptoms existed. However, studies in several countries have shown a prevalence of 1 in 400 in Caucasians and as high as 1 in 80 for people of Celtic ancestry.
Diabetes, arthritis, heart disease and psychological problems.
(1 in 300,000)
The data contained within the site is for information purposes only and is not to be construed as medical advice.
If you would like to know more information than is provided on this web site then please to receive our 64 page booklet as part of your membership. 4 x 8 paged newsletters per year. join FREEPLUS
By joining you will also help support our non-profit organisation and assist in further research into Hereditary Haemochromatosis.
Donations are tax-deductible in the Commonwealth of Australia. Top
Medical Advisory Board:
, Professor of Medicine, UQld Brisbane QLD , Professor of Medicine, University Department of Medicine, Fremantle WA : Director, Bruce Lefroy Centre for Genetic Health Research, Melbourne , Gastroenterologist, Brisbane QLD Group Leader, Gut and Liver Research Group, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, MelbourneProfessor Lawrie Powell AC
Professor John Olynyk