We Want To Help!
Life Expectancy of Mesothelioma Cancer Patients
There are a number of factors involved in determining the life expectancy of , and every patient has a unique case. Because medical professionals are in a constant search for advances in treatment options and ways to increase the life expectancy of mesothelioma patients, the life expectancy of a mesothelioma patient is likely to be better today than it was five years ago. mesothelioma cancer patients
For mesothelioma cancer patients, the median life expectancy — that is, the high point on a bell curve — is 4 to 18 months. However, an individual patient's case has much more to consider.
Factors Involved
The factors that affect the life expectancy of mesothelioma patients include:
the stage of the disease
the point at which it is diagnosed
whether the mesothelioma is localized or advanced (spreading)
the patient's age
what types of treatment are feasible for the patient
Stage of Mesothelioma Cancer
The is an important indicator of how long a patient can expect to live. Because the symptoms of , (in it s early stages) often resemble those of other common ailments such as bronchitis and pneumonia, many mesothelioma patients are misdiagnosed. Often, by the time mesothelioma is discovered, the cancer has already reached an advanced stage, which can be difficult to treat, and therefore, may result in a shorter life expectancy. stage of a mesothelioma cancer mesothelioma cancer
Although a has not yet been discovered, there are various available to help extend the life expectancy of mesothelioma patients, especially if diagnosed at an early stage of development.cure for mesothelioma cancer mesothelioma treatment options
If you suspect you have been exposed to asbestos and would like more information regarding testing for early stages of mesothelioma, contact mesothelioma centers today.
Early Detection, Aggressive Mesothelioma Treatment
Some studies have indicated that among patients whose mesothelioma is revealed early and treated aggressively, about half will have a life expectancy of two years, and one-fifth will have a life expectancy of five years. Among patients whose mesothelioma is advanced, only five percent can expect to live another five years.
Get Examined, Mesothelioma Diagnosis 
The importance of cannot be overemphasized. If you worked with asbestos at some point in your life, or if you were exposed to a significant amount of asbestos in a non-work setting, you should see a physician about the possibility of mesothelioma and other asbestos-related diseases , even if you have not had any symptoms. If you wait until you are experiencing the , you're missing a chance to catch the disease at an early stage. diagnosing mesothelioma cancer early now symptoms of mesothelioma cancer
Get Legal Help from Asbestos Attorneys
If you or someone you love have been diagnosed with mesothelioma cancer or another asbestos cancer disease, you may be eligible for financial compensation to cover medical bills, lost wages and emotional pain and suffering caused by your illness. Contact us today to speak with experienced who will thoroughly evaluate your case and help fight to protect your legal rights. asbestos attorneys
More Information about Mesothelioma Cancer
If you have been diagnosed with mesothelioma or would like to learn more about asbestos-caused diseases, . contact mesothelioma treatment centers today