Property Tax Relief and Exemptions
5. Property Tax Relief Programs and Exemptions:
If your property is damaged or destroyed, you may be eligible for a reduction in your assessed value.  forms are available in the Assessor's Office or from the Department of Revenue on the link above.Damaged Property
Taxpayer's Claim for Reduction of Assessment
If you have agricultural, open space or timber lands, you may apply to classify your land under the Current Use/Open Space program. A current use assessment generally means a reduced assessed value for the duration of the classification. There may be penalties and interest charges for removal from the classification. Contact the Assessor's Office for information and application forms. The application must be made by December 31 for classification in the following year.Agricultural, Open Space, and Timberlands
Home Improvement/b> If you improve your single family residence by remodeling, adding new rooms, decks, patios or other improvements, you may apply for a three-year exemption from taxes on the value of the physical improvement. Physical improvements do not include normal maintenance items. An application for the exemption must be filed with the Assessor's Office prior to completion of the project.
If you are a senior citizen or disabled person, you may qualify for property tax relief. To be eligible for the Property Tax Exemption program, you must:Senior Citizens and Disabled Persons
Be age 61 or older on December 31 of filing year (no age requirement for disabled persons).
The owner and occupant of a single family dwelling, mobile home, or one unit in multi-unit or cooperative housing.
Have combined disposable income of $35,000 or less for the prior year (including income of spouse and co-tenant).
File a claim with the County Assessor between January 2 and December 31./b>
Your household income determines the amount of exemption from regular property taxes or excess levies.
If you are a senior citizen or disabled person whose income is below $40,000, you may defer property taxes and special assessments on up to 80 percent of the equity in your home. Unlike the senior citizens and disabled persons exemption program, deferred taxes are a lien on the property. This lien becomes payable, together with interest, upon sale, transfer or inheritance of the property.
Exemptions/b> Your family automobile, household goods, personal effects and home furnishings are not subject to property tax. However, personal property tax may be due if these items are used in a business.
Churches, government units and many non-profit agencies do not pay tax on property used for a tax-exempt purpose. The Department of Revenue determines which properties are exempt.