Sparky's Book Shop!
Helpful, interesting sites
Perseus Foundation A good place to start in your search for answers. What is Cancer? - General information on types of animal cancer and treatments.
Co-sponsor of "Sparky Fights Back" and arguably the best non-profit organization devoted to research to find treatments and cures for cancer in animals. They are also interested in discovering more about similarities in human and animal cancers through their "comparative oncology" program.  Animal Cancer Foundation 
Research and educational organization since 1948. Information, clinical trials, news, etc. The foundation funds many studies on all types of animals, domestic and wild. Morris Animal Foundation
Non-profit group. Loads of information on their site Canine Cancer Awareness
This animal medical center in California posts extensive information about canine lymphoma, chemotherapy, etc. Mar Vista
Dog owners share experiences; foods; advice on finding vets, etc. An excellent site . Canines in Crisis
Organization dedicated to finding causes and cures of cancer. Animal Cancer Institute
A voluminous list of resources at thensome.com Pet Cancer Links
This is a professional society for veterinarians, but their site offers much information for the pet owner as well, such as cancer warning signs, news on clinical trials, etc. Veterinary Cancer Society
A shepherd mix who contracted hemangiosarcoma and was treated holistically with great success. Ginger The page lists Ginger's detailed daily diet.
American Holistic Veterinary Medical Association Find a Holistic Vet
A Doberman surviving lymphoma after four years. Good advice from the owner. All about Aussies. Breeders. Shows, etc... From wwwins.net--"down under". Hailey's Story
A good description of the Australian Terrier Hotels, apartments that accept dogs. Traveling with dogs. Great information. DogFriendly.com
This page is about cancer in Golden Retrievers, but offers many, many links to information applicable to all breeds. Land of Pure Gold--Cancer
- Dogs, Conditions and Diseases, Cancer (I-Seek-Health) Dog Cancer
- If you love dogs, visit I-Love-Dogs.com now for tons of free dog stuff! Dog, Dogs, a Canine Wonderland!
(More links to come. Got a good one? Email us!)
  More information on Canine Lymphoma can be found here.
 