 
Indexed Annuity
Use our site to research and compare indexed annuity rates and indexed annuity quotes from over 30 different annuity insurance companies.
With an Indexed , your return is tied to the increase in one of several stock market indexes, such as the S&P 500. However, if the stock market goes down, you do not lose any of your money. In fact, most Indexed Annuity contracts will even GUARANTEE you a minimum annual return (typically 1-3%), even if the index you invested in goes down the entire time you are invested. Annuity
For a complete discussion of indexed annuity contract features, indexing methods and guarantees, see our page.
Click Here
An Indexed Annuity can greatly improve your earnings potential, while at the same time keep your principal safe from market fluctuation. An is a great place to protect the money you've saved in your CDs, money market accounts, IRA accounts, etc. Or perhaps as an alternative for the money you currently have invested in stocks and mutual funds.  Indexed Annuity
If you would like to research and compare actual indexed annuity product offerings from a number of top rated insurance companies, please visit our page. Indexed Annuity Data
As stated above, an Indexed Annuity offers the potential of higher returns without exposing principal to market risk. In exchange for this guarantee of no downside risk, Indexed Annuity policyholders must generally be willing to give up some of their upside market potential. This is what makes these newer indexed annuity products so attractive to retired persons and to those approaching retirement. In exchange for having their retirement assets fully protected from loss (in fact, a gain is guaranteed) an indexed annuity owner "shares" in market gains, but may not receive 100% of the increase. For most individual investors who have recently seen the value of their investments fluctuate dramatically, this constitutes a prudent and desirable compromise. For individuals who do not want to take any downside risk, we believe an indexed annuity is one of the best investment options currently available.
Our indexed annuity service is always FREE and you will never incur any type of sales charge or load fee. If you prefer the assistance of a live indexed specialist, please feel free to . annuities call our Indexed Annuity Information Center toll-free at 1-800-239-0356
 Buying an indexed annuity has never been easier. AnnuityAdvantage.com, your complete one-stop indexed annuity shopping service.
Send email to with questions or comments about this web site. Copyright 2001-2008 AnnuityAdvantage.com webmaster@annuityadvantage.com
Alternate Home Page