Sports events presented on ESPN2 tend to be alternative sports such as , , , and, more recently, . However, in recent years ESPN2 has broadcast increasingly more mainstream sporting events, including games, the , much of the , many and games, the , the , races on Saturday afternoons, and the tournaments the , , , and (beginning in 2009) . poker billiards lumberjacking extreme sports drum and bugle corps Major League Baseball East-West Shrine Game 2006 World Baseball Classic Major League Soccer NCAA Basketball WNBA Arena Football League NASCAR Nationwide Series Grand Slam Tennis Australian Open French Open Wimbledon US Open
ESPN2's former flagship show, the morning sports/entertainment program , achieved minimal success and saw several format and host changes. In , it was supplanted by the TV simulcast of 's (which moved from ) and moved to a later time slot (10a-12n EST). In , moved from New York City to the ESPN headquarters in Bristol, and was renamed . In , made its debut on ESPN2. To cover news, updates, and stats. Plus, has special 1-hour called a "roundtable" editions on Monday's. Cold Pizza January 2006 ESPN Radio Mike and Mike in the Morning ESPNEWS May 2007 Cold Pizza ESPN First Take February 2007 NASCAR Now NASCAR NASCAR Now
In , ESPN2 began broadcasting games. In March 2007, both agreed on a contract that will run until the 2016 season. 2003 Major League Lacrosse [1]
, a program that featured interviews with popular sports figures, had averaged extremely low ratings, and had also faced several time slot changes, until it was finally canceled in . Quite Frankly with Stephen A. Smith [2] [3] January 2007
Every Saturday morning on ESPN2 is "Bass Saturday" where Bass Fishing programs are shown.
[] edit On-screen graphics
The "2" does not feature the signature stripe through the font like the other letters in the logo. ESPN's sports ticker, the "BottomLine", continues to run at the bottom of the screen, featured on all ESPN2 programs, whereas ESPN still only features the ticker during its highlights programs and at :18 and :58 on the hour during live game coverage. ESPN2 now appears in 89 homes in the , eleven million fewer than . million United States ESPN
[] edit Conversion to ESPN branding
On , , the sports-media blog reported that ESPN2 branding will be soon dropped entirely, in favor of ESPN, for the channel's in-game graphics, similar to the current ESPN branding on . The ESPN2 brand would be retained only for identification between the two channels, such as in the BottomLine. This change took place in full effect on February 12, 2007, as all on-air graphics (scorebox, transitional, mic flags, etc.) began using the ESPN logo rather than the ESPN2 logo. Another, more subtle change was made to the BottomLine, which is now red like the version of the BottomLine used on the main network; as expected, the ESPN2 logo remained on the BottomLine and ESPN2HD to further distinguish ESPN and ESPN2. February 1 2007 Deadspin ABC sports broadcasts [4] pillarboxes
is a simulcast of ESPN2.ESPN2HD 720p high definition
ESPN2HD has been adding more high definition programing with the addition of , , and . All three shows are broadcast from the in . There are at least 8 and a 1/2 hours per day of High Definition programing plus whatever live sporting events are shown. NASCAR Now ESPN First Take Mike and Mike in the Morning ESPN Digital Center Bristol, Connecticut
For the , most games were shown on ESPN2 and ESPN2HD, marking a major milestone for the network. Availability of the network is growing, with more cable providers (, , , , and others) and satellite providers ( and ) carrying the HD version. 2006 FIFA World Cup Cablevision Comcast Cox Time Warner Cable Dish Network DirecTV
Just like , ESPN2HD uses stylized , meaning that when the program being shown is only available in (and not ), the ESPN2HD logo is used to fill in the blank space on the sides. ESPNHD pillarboxing 4:3 standard definition 16:9 high definition
[] edit Simulcasting
ESPN2 has also simulcast many games with ESPN, usually as a part of a special, which covers a single telecast across several ESPN networks, with each network providing a different form of coverage (such as different camera angles). ESPN Full Circle
ESPN2 also simulcasts some ESPNEWS programming, often during local blackouts, and for a while provided a Sunday simulcast of ' SportsCenter. ESPN Deportes
ESPN2 also often carries on days where the regular ESPN broadcast is overrun by a longer than expected sporting event. ESPN and ESPN2 also jointly aired 2 episodes of a documentary special called , where ESPN showed a documentary showing the production of a SportsCenter episode, while the finished product aired on ESPN2. SportsCenter This is SportsCenter
Both ESPN and ESPN2 carried coverage of the . ABC News September 11, 2001 attacks
ESPN2 also aired the men's basketball SEC Championship Game in 2008 to most of the nation, since a storm destroyed the initial site of the tournament, causing the schedule to be rearranged in conflict with CBS's coverage of the Big Ten Championship Game. The game was produced by CBS. In SEC territory, the Big Ten game appeared on ESPN2.