Click on the links below to listen to some powerful coaching testimonials
                                      
 
I am so thankful for my coach. I really feel that she has helped me see my core values very clearly over the last few months and that she is helping me to live by them now.
My coach helps me to clearly focus on the topic, see the best possible outcome or worst possible outcome if necessary, and then helps me set up action steps to accomplish whatever it is I want. My fears or whatever it is that holding me back are cleared out of my way. I feel much more confident and can see a clear vision of what I want and once I do that, it is much easier to get there. I see myself doing whatever it is I can't quite figure out how to do. I know the answers myself, I just have to see it and my coach helps me get there.
Monica Baker Southern Living at HOME  
My coaching experience with Melissa Maguire has had far-reaching effects on my team. My team is growing fast---4 directors have emerged---sales have grown by over 200%, I have greater confidence and self esteem, and sponsored 15 women over the past 11 months. (I consider this phenomenal for me. Sponsoring was something I struggled with for a long time but coaching helped me to rethink what I was telling myself.) My sponsoring goal over the past 12 months was to bring 18 into the business for the year. Coaching taught me to set goals I can reach for that will challenge me and while I fell short by 3 for the year, I am proud of what I've done. My sponsoring goal for the coming 12 months is 24!
 
Being coached has helped me in turn coach the women on my team. Thinking like a coach and staying in question mode has become second nature to me. My glass is definitely half full and I like to work on solutions with my team instead of wallowing in the problems. I love it when I hear someone on my team say "I asked myself, "what would Trina tell me?'" I hear that quite a bit and it's that solid foundation of guidance and support your coaching gave me.
 
I am currently working toward the goal of promoting to the next level of leadership in my company by October 2006. My mission remains the same---to empower women and help them reach for their dreams.
 
                    Trina Craig, Star Director                     Southern Living At HOME  
I don mean to sound dramatic (it not my personality), but coaching with Julie has totally turned my life around!  In preparation for this testimonial, I looked back over my initial questionnaires it brought tears to my eyes because I remember so vividly how I was feeling at the time I started my coaching relationship.
Ifound myself at a place in my life where I was working too many hours trying to maintain two businesses.  I remember feeling on a daily basis that I couldn breathe.  Every moment of every day was scheduled so tightly.  My family was getting what was left over at the end of each day, which wasn much when I look back on it now.  I was tired, impatient, closed off, introspective, and uninterested.  Wow!  All of the characteristics my husband used to describe me at my worst.   This had become my way of life.
The major areas of my life were not balanced.  I didn make time for friends.  I wasn having any fun - who had the time?   My career choices were controlling my life and my relationships were suffering.
Through a series of coaching calls, Julie was able to help me make some extremely difficult and life changing decisions.  She helped me discover what truly matters to me my values.   My values have become my True North.  I have found when I am honoring my values (who I am), I have the ability to make decisions with confidence.  What a great feeling!   It very empowering!
Today, balance has been restored!  I can breathe! 
I have the privilege of owning my own decorating company, loving and caring for my husband, being a great mother to my two boys, making time for friendships, taking time to exercise, taking time to be quiet and reflective, and believe it or not, because I am living the way I want to live LIFE IS FUN!!!    Now that more like it! 
I can thank you enough! 
                      Kim Ausbury, ASP IDP                       Staged and Styled 
www.stagedandstyled.com  
I have been working with Julie for over a year.  She is the honesty from within.  She reiterates no matter what you want, show up, practice, learn it, and earn it all.  I now do a 2 week training for my new consultants and a step up for the futures.  Follow up is key.  She helped me hear my sons dream of moving back home to NJ and they can wait to meet her. Thanks for helping me see my LEGACY clearly.  If you are looking for true honest coaching, not an excuse creator, then Julie is your coach.
                       Morfia Schwarz, Director                      The Pampered Chef
 
Before coaching I was unclear and not focused on what I wanted and how to get it. I thought I was stepping outside my box but was not! I had a downline of approximately 2-3 people. I had a hard time solving my own roadblocks, let alone helping others.
From the coaching experience, I became much more focused, with greater belief in what I had to offer others as well as in my own abilities. I am better equipped to pass down what I have experienced and learned in coaching to help others. I am more willing after coaching to continue to push the envelope and step outside my comfort zone, which continues to grow and grow, and grow!!!
I quit my therfull-time job and am now doing my direct sales business full-time! I now have a downline of approximately 40 ladies and am continuing to grow like gangbusters! I plan to continue to grow my team, help my ladies develop teams of their own, reach their goals, and really develop this entire area for Sensaria.
 
                        Nancy Feikes                         Sensaria Natural Bodycare
 
 
Customer Testimonials:
It's duplicating Julie's "no nonsense" strategy that has allowed me to sort through & identify the 'workers' and 'non workers' on my team and spend my time where I need to....that's why the success in my 1st line is so strong.
 
Personally,  I've never had anyone as experienced as Julie in my PC business since starting 11+ years ago so I will always give her high kudos.
                      Kathy Yellets, Executive Director                       The Pampered Chef  
For a long time I had suffered from INFORMATION OVERLOAD!  I would hear myself saying things like, f only I could sort out what really matters!I knew that Pampered Chef Shows were a good thing!  I knew that becoming a PC consultant could impact lives.  I had lost touch with how to present it to my guests and hosts!  Julie helped me see the light!  I know what to do and how to do it!  I learned simple systems that made a big difference!  What she taught was easily duplicated and teachable!  The very first new consultant I trained using Julie's techniques had a $4000 first month!  The first show I held using the recruiting commercial the way Julie taught, resulted in 5 recruit leads. This may sound to good to be true...but it isn't! You can do this!  I highly recommend this class!
                Kelly Price, Executive Director                 The Pampered Chef  
 
Julie, you are indeed a master teacher and communicator. Your course (Designing an Amazing Party Experience) was upbeat, on track, fast-paced without feeling rushed, and supported us as participants in every way we needed - by words of knowledge and inspiration, written information, and dialogue that was excellent. I appreciated the recorded link to the calls for continuing our "fine tuning" and your open hand of assistance beyond our hour on the phone each week. This is by far the best, most complete course I have ever taken. You have supplied everything needed to increase my vision of a successful show. In the coming years, your business will surely grow beyond measure because you give so much of yourself.
 
                        Karen Agan, Senior Director                         The Pampered Chef
 
Taking this Group Training Course (Designing an Amazing Cooking Show Experience) has been the single GREATEST thing I have done for my business.Your course has changed my life!  I went into your course with a few solid bookings and leads.  I am happy to report that in May I went from my usual 4 (6 on a really great month) shows to having 10 kitchen shows and 5 catalog shows! You are truly gifted and you have lifted my business to a whole new level. I can't wait to take more courses with you. Thank you!
Shereda Buckingham, Director The Pampered Chef  
 
Copyright 2006  Outward Image Coaching & Training |  About Us  |   |  Shopping Cart Contact Us
 