FAQs: Active-Duty Military
 
At the recommendation of City Treasurer, Barbara O. Carraway, City Council unanimously voted to eliminate the city decal effective Sunday, January 1, 2006. The last day a 2005 city decal will be sold will be Friday, December 30, 2005. The 2005 city decal should remain on your windshield through Wednesday, February 15, 2006, after which you may scrape it off.
Do I still need a City decal for my vehicle's windshield in 2006?
No. The voted on to eliminate the City decal effective January 1, 2006. City Council August 16, 2005
When will I be able to scrape the old 2005 City decal off of my windshield?
The 2005 City decal can be scraped off of your windshield as of February 16, 2006.
Although a City decal will not be issued, will I still be charged a fee?
Yes. Chesapeake residents will be charged a City License Fee.
Will I receive a bill in the mail for my City License Fee?
Yes. The City License Fee will be included as a separate item on the annual Personal Property tax bills sent by the City Treasurer.
How much is the City License Fee?
The amount of the City License Fee has not changed. The fee is determined by the amount of the vehicle's gross weight.
When is the City License Fee due?
The City License Fee is due, together with your annual Personal Property taxes, on or before June 5th, or as indicated on your tax bill.
How do I pay my City License Fee?
Along with the annual taxes, the City License Fee can be paid by personal check or money order and returned to the City Treasurer by first class mail. From your home, it can be by credit card or E-check. Or, it can be paid in person at any one of the four . Personal Property paid online Treasurer's Office locations
What will happen if I do not pay my City License Fee on time?
If the City License Fee is not paid on time, then a late-payment penalty of $10.00 will be added to the City License Fee.
If the City License Fee is not paid in the current year, then, according to , it will remain due and be collectible.What will happen if I do not pay my City License Fee in the current year? Virginia's Attorney General
If I have owned my vehicle for two years and never paid a City License Fee, will I be required to pay for those outstanding years even though there is no longer a City decal?
Yes. According , the City Treasurer is authorized to charge the owner for outstanding City License Fees dating back three years. Virginia's Attorney General
If I receive 100% tax credit under the Personal Property Tax Relief Act for my vehicle, which is valued at $1,000 or less and used for non-business purposes, will I receive a bill for my City License Fee?
Yes. The City License Fee will now be included on the annual Personal Property tax bill. If, due to the PPTRA tax credit, you do not pay Personal Property taxes, you will still receive a bill for the City License Fee.
If I purchase a new vehicle during the year, will I be able to transfer my paid City License Fee from my old vehicle to the new one?
No. The City License Fee is charged to all vehicles garaged in the area between January 1st and June 30th of each year. It will not be charged to any local vehicles purchased after June 30th of each year until the following year's annual Personal Property tax billing.
If I move from Chesapeake to another state and/or city, will I receive a refund for my City License Fee?
No. Under the new ordinance, there is no refund for moving from Chesapeake or for a disposed of vehicle. As well, there is no transfer of the City License Fee to a newly acquired vehicle.
If I am in the active-duty military and a non-resident, do I have to pay the City License Fee?
No. Active-duty military personnel who have legal residence in a state other than Virginia are exempt from the City License Fee. However, they must provide a copy of their LES (Leave & Earnings Statement) as proof of out-of-state residency to the . Commissioner of the Revenue
After December 31, 2005, will I be stopped by any local police officer for driving without a City decal on my vehicle's windshield?
No. The has been informed of the City Council's vote to eliminate the City decal. Chesapeake Police Department
What is Filing by Exception?
The City Council voted to adopt Filing by Exception in October 2005, which will become effective in January 2006. Essentially, once you have filed a Personal Property tax return with the , then you are not required to file again until there is a change in location or status. Commissioner of Revenue
How does Filing by Exception differ from the Annual Vehicle Filing?
Each December, the Treasurer mailed a decal application/ vehicle registration form to each vehicle owner. The form was required to be signed and returned to the City. Using Filing by Exception, the City will continue to obtain vehicle registrations by receiving the information weekly from the match, but the decal application/vehicle registration form will no longer be mailed. In addition to receiving vehicle registration information from the DMV weekly, a citizen may come into the office of the Commissioner and register his/her personal property. Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles Effective January 2006, you will no longer be required to annually file with the City unless the location, status or ownership of your property has changed.
How will the City know when I purchase another vehicle?
Weekly, the City receives information from the about newly acquired vehicles garaged in Chesapeake. Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles
You should notify the Commissioner of the Revenue's office when any of the following events occur:
A change in ownership due to purchase, acquisition, sale, trade or disposal.
A change in the name or address of the person or persons owning or leasing the motor vehicle, trailer or motorcycle.
A change in the use of the motor vehicle, trailer, or motorcycle from personal to business use or vice versa.
Occurrence of an event which causes a motor vehicle, trailer or motorcycle to acquire or lose location.
Any other change affecting the assessment or levy of Personal Property tax on the motor vehicle, trailer or motorcycle for which a return was previously filed.
How long after a change in location or other triggering event should I notify the Commissioner?
After the change in location or other triggering event, you should contact the within thirty (30) days:       MAIN (757) 382-6730      FAX (757) 382-8751       E-MAIL . Commissioner of Revenue's office
Any notifications received in the will be provided to the . Treasurer's Office Office of the Commissioner of the Revenue
Please contact the at (757) 382-6281 or (757) 382-6764 if you have additional questions. Please e-mail your questions to Mrs. Barbara Carraway at: Treasurer's Office bcarrawa@cityofchesapeake.net
MILITARY
No. Active-duty military personnel, who are here solely by reason of military orders and legally reside in a state other than Virginia, are exempt from the City License Fee upon presentation of their current LES (Leave and Earnings Statement).If I am active-duty military personnel and in Chesapeake solely by reason of military orders but my legal residence is in another state other than Virginia, do I have pay the City License Fee?
Who do I notify and how do I inform the City of my exemption?
Active-duty military personnel should notify the Commissioner of the Revenue of the exemption by providing that office with a copy of their LES (Leave & Earnings Statement) as proof of out-of-state residency.
As a convenience, active duty military personnel may also send their proof of out-of-state residency via facsimile transmission:
Commissioner of Revenue: 757-382-8751 (FAX)
Treasurer: 757-382-8145