Brookville Lake
The 5,260-acre Brookville Lake lies in the heart of the historic and picturesque Whitewater River Valley in southeastern Indiana and is situated on the East Fork of the Whitewater River. The lake was completed by the Corps of Engineers in 1974.
Cagles Mill Lake
The lake features the largest waterfall in the state, a rock cut showing a number of geologic ages, native hardwood trees, and a nearby covered bridge. With its circular control tower, Cagles Mill Lake was the first authorized lake project in the Louisville Engineer District and sports a conduit tunnel bored through solid rock as well as a non-stilling basin discharge into the natural river channel. The lake was completed in 1953.
Cecil M. Harden Lake
The fall forest colors are vivid in October when Parke County holds its nine-day Covered Bridge Festival. Cecil M. Harden Lake, formerly known as Mansfield Lake, is located in west central Indiana and is situated on Big Racoon Creek, just 33 miles upstream of the confluence with the Wabash River. The lake was completed by the Corps of Engineers in 1960.
George Rogers Clark National Historical Park
A classic memorial stands on the site of Fort Sackville to commemorate the capture of the fort from British Lt. Governor Henry Hamilton and his soldiers by Lt. Col. George Rogers Clark and his frontiersmen on February 25, 1779. The heroic march of Clark's men from Kaskaskia on the Mississippi in mid-winter and the subsequent victory over the British remains one of the great feats of the American Revolution. Adjacent to the memorial there is a visitor center where one can see interpretive programs and displays.
Hoosier National Forest
Located in the rolling hills of southern Indiana, lies the Hoosier National Forest. Backed against the Ohio River to the south, this Forest is within a days drive of the metropolitan centers of Cincinnati, Louisville, Chicago, Evansville, and Indianapolis. The Hoosier National Forest boundary encompasses 644,163 acres, with over 192,000 acres of public land and most of the remaining in private ownership. The patchwork effect of small farms, pastures, cross road communities, and national forest give the Hoosier an interesting rural flavor.