 
 
Welcome to Consultation Direct, your source for InterNACHI and state certified home inspections and construction consultation backed by over 35 years in the construction industry.  Based out of Roxboro, North Carolina we offer all types of building inspections including phase and construction inspections servicing a 60 mile radius including southern Virginia.  Our services are designed to meet your specific project needs, large or small.
My Mission
To provide the most thorough, accurate, honest, and detailed home inspections and/or professional residential construction guidance customized to fit your specific project at a fair price.  "Inspected once - inspected right"  .
For additional information, quote, or to book an inspection via email please or you can call my office at 336-322-0875 for information by phone. click here
Company Profile 
My name is Glenn Good and I am the owner of Consultation Direct.  I am a North Carolina certified home inspector and member of NACHI as well as a professional construction superintendent/advisor with over 35 years experience in all phases of both residential and commercial construction. Consultation Direct is located in Roxboro, North Carolina  (Raleigh/Durham area) and services an area within a radius of 60 miles.  The service area includes Durham, Hillsborough, Rougemount, Chapel Hill, Leasburg, and Yanceyville to name a few.
To contact me for an inspection quote, or to schedule an inspection or onsite consultation, please use either the "Request Form" or "Contact Information" link at the left.  
 
I have done work as a consulting expert on Bob Vila's website in the "Expert Advice" section were I held the highest under the following headings:
Carpentry and Construction Foundations Appliances & Tools Flooring Insulation & Roofing
Doors & Windows Masonry & Stone Flooring Home & Garden Real Estate & Home Care
I am the moderator on Bob's public bulletin board for the following forums:Construction Systems - Foundations - Masonry & Stone
Experience:
Started as a finish carpenter in 1970 working on high end homes
By 1977 I was the superintendent overseeing the renovation of a 7-story commercial office building
Over 38 years experience in all phases of residential and commercial construction
Over 30 years experience as the construction superintendent on projects reaching into the multi-million dollar range
Opened Consultation Direct and started inspecting home in 2004
I still work as a construction superintendent as well as doing home inspections and construction consultation
Additional Training:
Licensed home inspector certified by the state of North Carolina and InterNACHI  
Professional construction supervision course by the Associated General Contractors
Safety training certified by the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA)
15+ years experience in CAD drawing
Here are some other links you might find useful:
 