 
All Articles
Always running short on time when it comes to these small but important muscle groups? We have the answer: Four 10-minute circuit-training workouts that serve as perfect cappers to any training session. Short Circuits, Part 8: Calves & Forearms   (posted 01/08/2009)
was one of the most beloved bodybuilders of the late 1970s and 1980s. Known by his adoring fans as the "," Tom competed in and won multiple professional bodybuilding competitions throughout his era, most notably taking a controversial third place finish at the . Perhaps most recognized for his remarkable leg development, Tom made a professional bodybuilding comeback in 1995 and was awarded honorary Mr. America. Now at the age of 53, the Golden Eagle is again strongly thinking of making another comeback. I had the opportunity to sit down and speak with Tom recently to discuss the possible comeback among other things. The Golden Eagle Tom Platz   (posted 01/07/2009)
Tom PlatzGolden Eagle1981 Mr. Olympia
A new year. A new resolution. A new and improved you. If only it were that easy. The truth, however, is that research indicates the long-term success rates of New Year Resolutions are only about 15-20%. While nearly half of Americans make a New Year resolution to lose weight, typically 20% break their resolution within a week. The vast majority of the remainder lose their way as January and February turn into March and April. Unleash the Extreme Fat-Loss Power of New BetaStax™   (posted 01/02/2009)
Here we go again. Another year to dream big about your ideal physique. The question is, are you just going to dream again, only to endure disappointment as January turns into June and nothing much has changed? Or is 2009 going to be the year that you turn your dreams into reality? Make Your New Year Resolution a Success with Vectron™   (posted 12/22/2008)
Carve a killer six-pack fast with these four 10-minute circuit-training workouts. It's now inevitable any time a football coach stands on the precipice of winning a championship. A handful of players sneak up behind him with a cooler full of icy Gatorade and dump it over his head. And every time, fans at home are shaking their head, thinking, Short Circuits, Part 7: Abs   (posted 12/22/2008)
How lame, boring and played out is that tradition?
You can build quads and hamstrings as thick as tree trunksnd chop down your workout time in the process. These four thigh-focused circuit-training workouts will deliver results in 20 minutes. Short Circuits, Part 6: Thighs   (posted 12/22/2008)
As we look upon the next stage of "" with part four of the development program leading into the full-scale DMCsystem, we will begin to see the first signs of merging the ground-based DMCwith the upright RED2 system first seen in part two of the series. In Search of Power, part 5   (posted 12/22/2008)
In Search of Power
Following parts , and , it is likely best to take a step back and review development as well as address potential concerns of early users of the . For those who have gone through the program to-date, the typical problems experienced relate to basically insufficient lower body strength as evidenced by the inability to maintain body position during longer holds. Not only does this suggest the lack of appropriate balance between the upper and lower body, as well as poor relative, posterior-chain and core strength, but it reveals an insufficient work threshold. In Search of Power, part 4   (posted 12/22/2008)
1 2 3 DMC™ system
For the last 16 years, baseball fans have flocked to Arizona in October and November to experience the showcase of the . Just as the desert begins to cool down, baseball hottest young players descend on the Phoenix area to display their skills for scouts, general managers, and farm directors from around the league. Major League Baseball's Next Super Stars   (posted 12/15/2008)
world's premier fall baseball league
As we go forward in the next stage of our preliminary DMCtraining session from and of "", it is very obvious to users how this program points out weaknesses in lower body, core strength as well as lack of appropriate balance between upper and lower body strength. This in itself is one of the most important points I can make within athletic training, whereby far too much focus is spent on developing the upper body as opposed to looking at overall body development with the lower extremities as the basis. Wel continue with this further but the point is that most training develops an individual as an inverted triangle (aka ) whereas it should be precisely the opposite. In Search of Power, Part 3   (posted 12/05/2008)
parts 1 part 2 In Search of Power"the dreidel" complex
Improve the size and definition of your arms without endless hours of lifting. These four 20-minute biceps-focused are designed to build no matter your life's time constraints. Short Circuits Part 4: Bicpes (posted 11/21/2008)
circuit-training workoutsbigger biceps
Within "" I introduced a plan to improve strength and power, targeting the posterior chain via the use of basic static holds found in the preliminary work of my DMCsystem. In many ways the basic notion of this training system revolves around poor movement patterns and key structural problems that the overwhelming majority of the public is plagued with and results in the inability to maintain proper posture under duress. Running parallel to the nine-stage DMCsystem that I introduced in my book on middle-aged fitness "With Grace", is another new system of mine, RED2. In Search of Power, Part 2 (posted 11/20/2008)
In Search of Power, Part 1
In March of 2006, Greenville, South Carolina resident broke the standard for most . He did 126. Remarkably, that's over two push-ups per second. Just two years later, Jeremiah shattered his own record by doing an astounding 135 one-arm push-ups in one minute. To truly appreciate the significance of these accomplishments you've really got to understand the heart of this young man. Born a premature baby and having suffered a severe brain hemorrhage as an infant, Jeremiah wasn't given much of a shot from the get-go. Since then, Big Jer (big for the size of his heart rather than his physical size), as he's often referred to by family and friends, has spent his life determined to prove his naysayers wrong. One Arm Push-Up World Record Holder Jeremiah Gould   (posted 11/11/2008)
Jeremiah Gould Guinness Book of World Records one-arm push-ups in one minute
Glutamine is one of the new whiz kids on the block when it comes to bodybuilding supplements. Although it's been around for a while - articles in Muscle & Fitness were touting it in the early 90's, and medical journals were raving about it years before that - it's finally caught on big time with serious athletes in virtually every sport. GLUTAMINE (L-GLUTAMINE) - Supplement Superstar!   (updated 11/10/2008)
The notion of "power" and "force development" is one that you hear a great deal in the "iron game." In-fact the notion of developing maximal force whetherirecting, accepting or re-directingits at the cornerstone of my "Concepts of Training." And while I note this endlessly in my teaching, the question looms large: Just precisely "how" do you do this? In Search of Power, Part 1   (posted 10/28/2008)
Do you want to maximize your size and definition, but don have the luxury to spend hours training? Use any of these three powerful 20-minute pec-focused circuit-training workouts when time is of the essence. Short Circuits Part. 2: CHEST   (posted 10/28/2008)
Running back Brian Westbrook is destroying opposing defenses once more and all is well in the City of Brotherly Love. It didn't take Westbrook long to put the rest of the NFL on notice that he's back and ready to wreak havoc as his Philadelphia Eagles begin their second-half push for the NFC East division crown. Star Running Back and Supreme Protein® Spokesman Brian Westbrook is Primed for an Offensive Explosion as NFL Playoffs Approach   (posted 10/27/2008)
Our supplementation needs are rather straightforward; to improve the quality of our lives by shoring-up weaknesses from diet and furthermore augmenting strategically important nutrients that might otherwise be difficult to obtain through normal diet. That, of course, is quite the "shopping list" of needs, yet I think it helps in deciding on goals of supplementation and leads you into understanding why phosphatidylserine (PS) is so important. As you consider two streams of interests, athletic and general overall health, youl understand why PS reigns supreme in both categories. PS for Athletes: Phosphatidylserine Emerges as a "Wonder Nutrient" for Protecting Mass Gains and Sharpening Focus   (posted 10/17/2008)
Do you want to maximize your size and definition, but don have the luxury to spend hours training? Use any of these three powerful 20-minute circuit-training workouts when time is of the essence. Oftentimes, the hours in our lives just don add up the way we like. Figure an hour to get ready in the morning, about 10 at work, a 60-minute commute each way, an hour for dinner, two to watch the game, three hours of quality time with the family at night add seven hours of shut-eye, and youe at about well, 26 hours to pack into a 24-hour day. And you didn even figure in a workout yet! Short Circuits Part. 1: Shoulders   (posted 10/13/2008)
Vectron The first and only protein source clinically provento target fat loss and preserve lean muscle mass. It bodybuilding ultimate paradox, the contradiction at the very foundation of every bodybuilder efforts to attain perfection. You can add muscle mass without adding some fat. And you can lose fat without sacrificing muscle. Together at Last: Simultaneous Muscle Support and Dramatic Fat-Loss   (posted 10/02/2008)
The Mr. Olympia Prejudging opened with a moment of silence for Steve Stone, who passed on Friday, September 26. Stone was the co-host of Fox Sports' "MuscleSport USA" TV program, as well as the Chief Expediter for the Olympia and at many NPC contests. Olympia weekend 2008: Pre-Judging   (posted 09/30/2008)
A BATTLE TO SEE WHICH BB KNOWS THE ABCs IN THE IFBB.
At the Las Vegas Convention Center, during the Olympia Weekend Expo, there was a battle of epic proportions proportions being the operative word. Bodybuilders who are smaller in stature but not heart or muscle warred like giants for the title of champion of the Olympia's inaugural 202 Showdown. Olympia weekend 2008: Top 3 Olympia Finishers   (posted 09/30/2008)
When the lights went down in the Orleans Hotel Showroom, the crowd was abuzz with anticipation of whether this would be an Olympia Weekend that would turn Vegas on its head, and the athletes delivered. The Mr. Olympia Press conference was actually a rousing affair, reminiscent of boxing glory days full of playful trash talking, self-promotion and hyperbolic predictions. Olympia weekend 2008: Where Legends Are Made   (posted 09/30/2008)
The Las Vegas Convention Center was packed with behemoths, mass monsters, ripped abs, beautiful figure competitors, pretty fitness models, and a slew of muscleheads from across the nation and the world. They crammed themselves in an exposition hall that contained a maze of attention-grabbing booths representing companies that were shilling products and giving away free stuff (supplements, energy drinks, protein bars, T-shirts, fitness magazines, calendars, shaker cups, water bottles and other forms of logo-laden paraphernalia). Olympia weekend 2008: Fitness Focuses on Hollywood   (posted 09/30/2008)
Make maximum gains with minimal equipment in the case of these 6 compound exercises, just one dumbbell. The following six compound exercises are usually performed with an Olympic bar or a pair of dumbbells. In your upcoming workouts, try leaving one 'bell on the rack instead, introducing a whole new dimension to your training, and your results. One To Grow On   (posted 09/29/2008)
Everyone knows that is essential for the support of . But now comes word on the research front that there's a cutting-edge new bioactive protein that appears to take this efficacy much further. Prolibra®: Dramatic Fat-Loss and Muscle Preservation   (posted 09/12/2008)
whey proteinmuscle growth
Virtually every effective fat-burner tested to date has had one thing in common—STIMULANTS, and usually lots of them. Recently however, a new discovery has yielded a that may in fact exceed the power of even some of the most potent stimulant based fat-burners on the market. A specialized highly bioactive, yet decaffeinated, extract of green coffee extract called was subjected to a rigorous double-blind clinical trial to assess its weight-loss effi cacy and impact on lean body mass. The results were truly extraordinary and in fact even exceed those achieved with many high stimulant compounds. Svetol®: Innovative New Fat-Burning Agent Promotes Significant Weight-Loss WITHOUT STIMULANTS   (posted 09/12/2008)
stimulant-free fat-burning compound Svetol®
The "" exercise class over the last decade has become one of the sexy new marketing tags in the health and exercise industry. While the notion of a "bootcamp" is rock-solid and born from military origins, the version that the mainstream public is exposed to is not only heavy on the "sizzle" and very light on "substance," but it is often operated in a dangerous and unprofessional manner. Bootcamp Fitness for Training Professionals   (posted 09/05/2008)
bootcamp
In of this series, we looked at the basic causation of obesity and began to establish simple positive habits in . In many ways, establishing "" is our most difficult task. I want to be very clear about this because somehow over the last three or four decades, very negative habits have crept into our lives. While many of these habits on the surface do not appear to be attached to health and fitness, they in-fact have a massive impact on weight loss, overall health and are general environment. Part 2: The Hard, Cold Facts About Fat-Burning and Fat Loss   (posted 09/02/2008)
part 1 diet and exercise
good habits
The world of athletic training is a peculiar one, full of dedicated young athletes striving to be their best, as well as coaches, both young and old, who wish to make those dreams a reality. Unfortunately for the wide majority, performance enhancement is not always in proportion to the hard work invested. The chief reason for this is that preparation doesn suit the goals of the sport. Truthfully while it is a difficult number to quantify, if I stated that ninety-nine per-cent of athletes use resistance work incorrectly, it would not be very far from the truth. Advanced Training for Rugby Players   (posted 09/02/2008)
Subsequent to of this series, I want to move past general training suggestions and get into the meat of the matter. As per the all-training recommendations I strongly urge you to review proper technique and form and suggest a complete review of my introductory article on . As noted previously the resurgence of has been nothing short of remarkable. Unfortunately the medium is a victim of its own marketing success as it is very typically taught incorrectly even in the most well-known circles. Not only is form incorrect (generally the back is used as a lever as opposed to projecting movement with the legs, in an effort to appear ough, workouts are designed to be extremely difficult but without reason. Preparing an extremely challenging workout isn a difficult thing. The key in developing programs is that they elicit appropriate development and take into account the subject group. Kettlebell for Strength Training, part 2   (posted 09/02/2008)
part one Kettlebell Training
Kettlebell training
When it comes to motivation, not everyone is lucky enough to have Mickey Goldmill screaming in his ear. The cranky owner of a decrepit Philly gym had Rocky Balboa eating lightning, crapping thunder, and punching his way to the heavyweight championship of the world. You, however, live in the real world. Your wife may yell at you to take out the garbage, and the guy you cut off on the freeway may hurl an obscenity or two your way, but you're not likely to have a Mick to rely on to give you constant verbal prodding. For you, motivation must come mainly from within. Get Motivated!   (posted 09/02/2008)
When it comes to protein, is well established as the leader for purity, anabolism and, of course, its customer-approved taste. The first in the industry to use a cross-flow micro-filtration system yielding high amounts of fractions and critical growth factors, this progressive franchise has, since its introduction, continually advanced itself to deliver the most effective for every conceivable user application. If youe looking for a protein for pre- or post-workout, aerobic, median weight training, heavy weight training, nighttime or daytimehere a to fit your need. Choosing The Right NytroWhey: Timing is Everything   (posted 08/29/2008)
NytroWheywhey peptidemuscle synthesisNytroWhey