Welcome to my Pampered Chef website!
 
Hi, I'm Karen, an Independent Consultant for The Pampered Chefin the South East of the UK.
 
I hope you enjoy browsing these pages to discover more about The Pampered Chef and indeed more about yourself!  Are you...
 
someone who enjoys browsing our online catalogue and chooses to experience the excitement of purchasing some (or indeed all!) of the fantastic products available. "A Spender" 
 
" someone who is equally as excited by our products but also wants something for nothing - by hosting a qualifying cooking show you are guaranteed free products.  You simply have to invite your friends round for  a social evening and let me cook for you all! A Saver"
 
someone who REALLY loves our products and wants to not only own them all but earn money in the process.  There's no catch, and you'll never look back - an opportunity too good not to share! "An Earner"
 
We accept the following credit cards:
The Pampered Chef UK Ltd are proud members of the following organizations:
The Pampered ChefUK, Ltd. is a proud member of the Direct Selling Association, Ltd. (DSA).
About The Pampered Chef-UK, Ltd
 
As the premier direct seller of essential kitchen tools and part of the Berkshire Hathaway family of businesses, The Pampered Chefand its sales force of independent Pampered ChefConsultants offer multi-purpose kitchen tools, easy recipes that offer dramatic results and simple mealtime preparation techniques that make home cooking quick, easy and fun.
Founded in the US in 1980, Pampered Chef has been in the UK since 1999 and currently has around 2000 active consultants.
Our range includes over 200 professional quality kitchen tools, of which 80% are exclusive to The Pampered Chef  There is a guarantee of at least one year on all products.
We believe that multi-purpose tools are the cornerstone of an efficient kitchen. Our products are designed to be used in more than one way, so kitchens are no longer cluttered with rarely used utensils.
* Karen Eeles * Coulsdon * Surrey * 07957 554190 *