Dear Gene and Lucie,
      I haven't referred to any books for information and all I have is what some of my older relatives have written down.
      I don't have any information on the church only that the records on the Field Family were destroyed when the Yankees burned the church. It could very well have been St. Mark's Parish.
      The land where the Field Cemetery is located as your wrote in your letter was granted to Daniel and Henry Field. My great grandmother Catherine Ann Field along with some others in the Field family lived at the Field Home on that property. I have been told by some of the older relatives that the bricks that were used to build the house came from England and that the Yankees burned the house.
      Sorry I don't know anything about the Kelley Field Cemetery. Where is it located? There are a lot of Kelleys in and around Culpeper but I'm not acquainted with them.
      You asked how my great grandmother was connected to the earlier Fields.
      According to what I have written down Daniel Field who Married Hannah Roberts was Catherine Ann's grand father.
Daniel Field married Hannah Roberts       Joseph Field* born 1777, married Elizabeth Dent Knox*, 1st wife                  Joseph Field died as a child                  Harry Field*             +Martha Emmons, 2nd wife            Catherine Ann Field* married James Mastin*                Joseph Thomas Mastin married Fannie Cole Nottingham                      Blanche Mastin                 James Henry Mastin married Betty Hume Emmons                       Annie Mastin                       Joseph Mastin married Martha Collins                            Frances married Leon Martin                           Ada married Archie Martin                           Catherine married Allen Feagan                                Charlie Feagan                           Mildred married Stuart Weedon                           James married 1st wife May Nutelman, 2nd Elizabeth Hall                           William died at birth                           Emma married George Walker                           Seldon died age of 16                      Julia Mastin
      Other children of Joseph Field and Martha Emmons            William Dent Field*            James Robert Field* married Betty Stevens*            Daniel Field*, Capt. in Civil war was killed at Chancellorsville            Thomas Field married Virginia Morgan                Ellen married Harris                     Leah Harris*            Elizabeth Knox Field*            Nancy            Martha
     Other children of Daniel Field and Hannah Roberts           Grace Field, married Mr. Hamilton           Patsy Field, married Mr. Hamilton           Diana Field, never married           Annie Field, married Mr. Kemper           Esther Field, married Mr Foushee           Burgess Field
Guess the other Fields that are buried in the cemetery are cousins. Wish I could be of more help. The Culpeper Historical Society of Culpeper has a book out called Culpeper, A Virginia County's History Through 1920. By Eugene M. Scheel. I gave my son a copy of this and it has alot of little things concerning some of the Field's and Kelly's and some more interesting facts. Hope some of this makes sense to you. I am not much of a writer. Am enclosing a clipping about Mr. Graham. He was the one you talked to up at his property, which at one time belonged to the Fields. Appreciate your letter and if can help you any more will be glad to.
Sincerely,
Emma Walker
* Indicates People buried in the Field Burying Ground, Culpeper County, Virginia The above information is derived from two letters to us From Emma Mastin Walker. We edited a few things to make it more understandable. The letters are dated 22 March and 18 June 1998. This information explains the relationships of the people buried in the Field Burying Ground.
Links: