leftnav.gif
Breathing Easier with Reference and Learning Center for Air Program Managers
Coal-fired power plants, cement plants, and incinerators on U.S. Army bases can release hazardous chemicals and contaminants to the air and surrounding communities. Other military facilities, such as aircraft gunnery ranges, firefighter training centers and maintenance facilities may also add dangerous materials to the air. Each army base must meet all applicable air quality requirements without impacting its national security work. A new Web-based learning and resource center created by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) for the U.S. Army Forces Command (FORSCOM) helps the Army air program managers meet these requirements and manage pollution. PNNL is operated by Battelle for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).
The online resource center increases the ability of air program managers o do the right thing,according to PNNL Project Manager Marina Skumanich. t puts information right at their fingertips. An air program manager ensures compliance with the federal Clean Air Act, as well as with state, local, Army, and Department of Defense clean air regulations. In 1998, one of FORSCOM top priorities was to develop a training program to help air program managers effectively and efficiently meet regulations, stay up-to-date on new information, and share strategies and information with others. Thus, the Air Program Manager Learning and Resource Center was born.
The Center, available at http://www.seattle.battelle.org/forscom/index.htm, is organized into five major content tracks:
Provides informa- tion and context on environ- mental laws and regulations, and a comprehensive analysis of the Clean Air Act.Regulations
Concentrates on topics of major concern to air programs, as identified by the FORSCOM air program managers.Hot Air
Describes how to organize and manage an effective air program. It also outlines the air program manager duties, and captures lessons learned and best practices.Management
Explains the underlying scientific principles and tools related to air pollution.Science
Gives a visual perspective of possible air pollution sources and provides a tool to survey facilities.Installation
The Learning Center has other notable features for air resource managers. The resource page provides information and tools, including printable air program activity checklists and forms, links to additional information sources, a list of regulations, and a glossary of relevant terms. Users can determine their strengths and weaknesses in various subject areas by completing tests at either beginning or advanced levels.
he Center is very user-friendly,says Kate Baker, PNNL Co-Project Manager. he product has been favorably evaluated and used by the customer./p>
For additional information, contact Marina Skumanich at (206) 528-3307, . sku@battelle.org