Jump to: , navigation search
AirBART stop at Oakland International Airport
is a shuttle service that connects the 's station with (OAK). Buses stop at street level just outside the BART station and make two stops at the airport, one for each terminal, along the second (middle) curb. Buses run every ten minutes at most times of day. A ride costs 3 ($1 for children 12 years and younger, seniors 65 years and older, and disabled persons) and, depending on traffic, takes fifteen to thirty minutes. To speed up boarding, AirBART requires exact fares to be paid for boarding the bus, which can be fulfilled with either exact change, 1-dollar bills, or a $3 BART ticket.AirBART bus Bay Area Rapid Transit District Coliseum/Oakland Airport Oakland International Airport $ [1]
BART had plans to build a between the Coliseum/Oakland Airport station and the Oakland Airport terminals. The project's planning ended during November, 2008. This was mainly because of the project's cost, coupled with an [economic] recession. A less expensive plan, and anticipation of better economic times ahead, has kept BART's hope alive; continuing to find a faster way to get passengers from the trains to the terminal, in a more environmentally-friendly manner. people mover [2]
AirBART's fleet consists entirely of 1998-model Low Floor buses and was one of the first customers of the bus model. Gillig
AirBART makes only one stop at the Oakland Airport now. The singular stop serves both terminals.
[] edit Alternatives
Instead of taking AirBART, trips between the Coliseum BART and Oakland Airport can be made on route 50. AC Transit is cheaper at $1.75, with additional discounts for those transferring. . Route 50 runs every 15 minutes on weekdays, and every half hour on weekends. This is not as frequently as AirBART. Although Route 50 makes several local stops, total trip time is similar. Route 50 is also not well advertised, and it is easy to get on the bus in the wrong direction. AC Transit buses are also not designed to accommodate large amounts of luggage. AC Transit [3] [4]
AC Transit route 805 is also available late at night. BART does not run late at night. So route 805 goes all the way to downtown Oakland where connections are available. [5] All Nighter