  
Trailer Registration
A trailer is considered a vehicle without motor power designed for carrying property or passengers wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including tow dollies and converter gear. (a href="/exec/link.asp?658">46.2-100) Trailers can be registered annually, bi-annually or permanently. The is based on the gross weight of the trailer and the registration period selected. Insurance coverage for trailers depend on the coverage of the vehicle pulling the trailer. Check the Virginia State Police Website for safety . trailer registration fee insurance inspection requirements
A publication highlighting trailer safety tips entitled "" is available through The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Towing a Trailer: Being Equipped for Safety
Permanent License Plates for Trailers
Permanent license plates are available for all private, for-hire and rental trailers, regardless of their weight, for a one-time fee.
A registration card will be issued for a trailer with permanent plates.
The license plate will not have a month and year decal unless it is on a rental trailer, nor will it have a month or year expiration. Plates are embossed with the word "Permanent".
For trailers that have a gross weight of 4,000 pounds or less, you may choose a full size or small (motorcycle size) permanent license plate.
Permanent trailer plates for rental trailers will display an orange decal with a white "R" to designate the trailer as a rental.
There is no additional registration fee for as long as you own the trailer. If ownership changes new plates will have to be purchased.
To order permanent plates, complete a "Application for Registration" and check "permanent" for registration type. VSA-14
Personalized messages are available for an additional one-time fee.
Permanent plates are neither transferable nor refundable.
If your permanent plate is lost, mutilated or illegible it can be replaced for a fee. (a href="/exec/link.asp?730">46.2-692)
Local Vehicle Registration Program
DMV also collects the local vehicle registration fee for localities that participate in the . Local Vehicle Registration Program
|  |  | P.O. Box 27412 Richmond, VA 23269 1-866-DMV-LINE (1-866-368-5463) At DMV, we are committed to protecting your privacy. It is DMV's policy to only release your information to you.