A number of geometers made attempts to prove the by assuming its negation and trying to derive a contradiction, including , (Alhacen), , , , , , and later , , , and . Their attempts failed, but their efforts gave birth to hyperbolic geometry. parallel postulate Proclus Ibn al-Haytham Omar Khayy m [1] Nasir al-Din al-Tusi Witelo Gersonides Alfonso Giovanni Gerolamo Saccheri John Wallis Lambert Legendre [1]
The theorems of Alhacen, Khayyam and al-Tusi on , including the and , were the first theorems on hyperbolic geometry. Their works on hyperbolic geometry had a considerable influence on its development among later European geometers, including Witelo, Gersonides, Alfonso, John Wallis and Saccheri. quadrilaterals Lambert quadrilateral Saccheri quadrilateral [2]
In the nineteenth century, hyperbolic geometry was extensively explored by and , after whom it sometimes is named. Lobachevsky published in 1830, while Bolyai independently discovered it and published in 1832. also studied hyperbolic geometry, describing in a 1824 letter to Taurinus that he had constructed it, but did not publish his work. In 1868, provided models of it, and used this to prove that hyperbolic geometry was consistent if Euclidean geometry was. J nos Bolyai Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky Karl Friedrich Gauss Eugenio Beltrami
The term "hyperbolic geometry" was introduced by in 1871. Felix Klein [3]
For more history, see article on , and the references Coxeter and Milnor. non-Euclidean geometry
[] edit Models of the hyperbolic plane
There are four commonly used for hyperbolic geometry: the , the , the , and the Lorentz model, or . These models define a real which satisfies the axioms of a hyperbolic geometry. Despite the naming, the two disc models and the half-plane model were introduced as models of hyperbolic space by Beltrami, not by Poincar or Klein. models Klein model Poincar disc model Poincar half-plane model hyperboloid model hyperbolic space
of great rhombitruncated {3,7} tiling
Poincar disc model
Lines through a given point and asymptotic to a given line, illustrated in the Poincar disc model
The , also known as the and , uses the interior of a circle for the hyperbolic , and of the circle as lines. Klein model projective disc model-Klein model Beltrami plane chords
This model has the advantage of simplicity, but the disadvantage that in the hyperbolic plane are distorted. angles
The distance in this model is the , which was introduced by in . cross-ratio Arthur Cayley projective geometry
The , also known as the , also employs the interior of a circle, but lines are represented by arcs of circles that are to the boundary circle, plus diameters of the boundary circle. Poincar disc model conformal disc model orthogonal
The takes one-half of the Euclidean plane, as determined by a Euclidean line , to be the hyperbolic plane ( itself is not included). Poincar half-plane model BB
Hyperbolic lines are then either half-circles orthogonal to or rays perpendicular to .BB
Both Poincar models preserve hyperbolic angles, and are thereby . All isometries within these models are therefore . conformal M bius transformations
The or employs a 2-dimensional of revolution (of two sheets, but using one) embedded in 3-dimensional . This model is generally credited to Poincar , but Reynolds (see below) says that and used this model from 1872.Lorentz model hyperboloid model hyperboloid Minkowski space Wilhelm Killing Karl Weierstrass
This model has direct application to , as Minkowski 3-space is a model for , suppressing one spatial dimension. One can take the hyperboloid to represent the events that various moving observers, radiating outward in a spatial plane from a single point, will reach in a fixed . The hyperbolic distance between two points on the hyperboloid can then be identified with the relative between the two corresponding observers. special relativity spacetime proper time rapidity
[] edit Visualizing hyperbolic geometry
Institute For Figuring
's famous prints and illustrate the conformal disc model quite well. In both one can see the . (In the white lines are not geodesics, but , which run alongside them.) It is also possible to see quite plainly the negative of the hyperbolic plane, through its effect on the sum of angles in triangles and squares. M. C. Escher Circle Limit III Circle Limit IV geodesics III hypercycles curvature
For example, in every vertex belongs to three triangles and three squares. In the Euclidean plane, their angles would sum to 450 ; i.e., a circle and a quarter. From this we see that the sum of angles of a triangle in the hyperbolic plane must be smaller than 180 . Another visible property is . In , for example, one can see that the number of within a distance of from the center rises exponentially. The demons have equal hyperbolic area, so the area of a ball of radius must rise exponentially in .Circle Limit III exponential growth Circle Limit IV demons nnn
There are several ways to physically realize a hyperbolic plane (or approximation thereof). A particularly well-known paper model based on the is due to . The art of has been used to demonstrate hyperbolic planes with the first being made by . In 2000, Keith Henderson demonstrated a quick-to-make paper model dubbed the "". pseudosphere William Thurston crochet Daina Taimina [4] hyperbolic soccerball