 
Gene Roddenberry
(, – , ) was born in , , and spent his boyhood in . He is best known as the creator of the television series , and was one of the first people to be .
Eugene Wesley Roddenberry August 19 1921 October 24 1991 El Paso, Texas USA Los Angeles, California science fiction Star Trek buried in space
Life and work
Roddenberry was married twice. He had two children by his first wife, Eileen Rexroat (to whom he was married 27 years) — Dawn, and the late Darleen. His second marriage was to , who played Nurse in the original series, , and the voice of the computer in the later three series. He had one child, Rod, with Majel. Majel Barrett Christine Chapel Star Trek Lwaxana Troi
Roddenberry joined the in and became an aviator. After leaving the service, he was a commercial pilot for and then served on the from - . Before , he wrote scripts for many of the popular television series of the . He was also trying to get other science fiction series off the ground, mostly without success. U.S. Army Air Corps 1941 Pan American World Airways Los Angeles Police Department 1949 1956 Star Trek 1950s
Following the cancellation of "Star Trek" Roddenberry pitched four sci-fi tv series concepts that had pilot movies produced but were not picked up. The Questor Tapes , Genesis II , , and Strange New World . He also directed a minor feature film Spectre . Planet Earth
During the latter , Roddenberry lectured at universities around the country. He amused the attendees with anecdotes from the Star Trek set, spoke of his visions of the future and showed the , a collection of outtakes from the original series. Fans bestowed upon him the affectionate nickname "The Great Bird of the Galaxy" after a mythical creature referenced in an episode of the original Trek series. 1970s Star Trek Blooper Reel
Roddenberry listens to a fan after a lecture at the University of Texas at Austin (late 1970s).
ran for three seasons. Although it was cancelled due to low , the series gained wide popularity in . The Star Trek episode was meant to be the pilot for a series which never came to fruition. Beginning in go-ahead was given by Paramount for Roddenberry to develop a sequel "Star Trek" television series based around as many of the original cast as could be recruited. This series was to be the anchor show of a new network but plans by Paramount for this network were scrapped and plans were changed to do a Star Trek feature film. The result had a lukewarm response but nevertheless, several feature films and a new television series, , were created in the . Roddenberry was deeply involved with creating and producing , although his involvement lessened in seasons 2 and 3 due to deteriorating health. also spawned the television series , and .Star Trek ratings syndication Assignment: Earth spinoff 1975 Star Trek: The Motion Picture Star Trek: The Next Generation 1980s Star Trek: The Next Generation Star Trek Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Star Trek: Voyager Star Trek: Enterprise
Roddenberry only produced the first Star Trek film, . Due to cost overruns and a problematic relation with the Paramount management, Roddenberry was ousted and replaced by . He continued as executive consultant on the next four films - , , and . The last film based on the original series, was dedicated in Roddenberry's memory; he reportedly viewed a version of the film a few days before his death. Star Trek: The Motion Picture Harve Bennett Star Trek: The Wrath of KhanStar Trek III: The Search for SpockStar Trek IV: The Voyage HomeStar Trek V: The Final FrontierStar TrekStar Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country
Writers on the show have charged that ideas they developed were later passed off by Roddenberry as his own, or that he lied about their contributions to the show at Star Trek conventions. Roddenberry was confronted by these writers, and apologized to them, but according to his critics, he continued to repeat the false claims. [1] In her , actress who played in the first Star Trek series, reported having had a love affair with Gene Roddenberry. She felt that his strong and controversial inclination to get her on the show had a lot to do with their relationship. autobiography Nichelle Nichols Uhura
Roddenberry's life and work has been favorably chronicled in the biography by Susan Sackett, his close associate for 17 years. The book has been described as inaccurate by his critics.Inside Trek: My Secret Life with Star Trek Creator Gene Roddenberry
Despite his reduced management of near the end of his life, Roddenberry was still respected enough that , owners of the various series, agreed to his request that the not be considered by the studio. According to the reference work , Roddenberry reportedly considered elements of the fifth and sixth Trek films to be apocryphal, though there is no indication that he wanted them removed from Trek canon.Star Trek Paramount Pictures Star Trek Star Trek Animated Series canon The Star Trek Chronology
Gene Roddenberry was a [2]. After his death, a lipstick-sized capsule of his ashes was to orbit the earth for six years (after which they burned up in the earth's atmosphere). There is an asteroid called and a on that were named in his honor. secular humanist sent into space 4659 Roddenberry crater Mars
After his death in 1991, Roddenberry's estate allowed the creation of two long-running television series based upon some of his previously unfilmed story ideas and concepts. and have become reality under the guidance of Majel Barrett, although the actual inspiration of at least Andromeda seems very tenuous indeed. A third Roddenberry storyline was adapted in 1995 as the short-lived . Earth: Final Conflict Andromeda comic book Gene Roddenberry's Lost Universe
Notes
[1] See by Joel Engel, books by Star Trek Producer Bob Justman, science-fiction convention talks by Star Trek writer Dorothy C. Fontana, and books and articles by .Gene Roddenberry: The Myth and the Man Behind Star Trek Harlan Ellison
[2] Interview in , March/April 1991The Humanist
External links