Roll over the photos below to see "before" and "after" Partners projects.
Partners Project Bird Dog Ranch Richfield, Idaho
Seasonal wetland prior to livestock exclusion and wetland restoration activities, and comparison photo at same site, first spring after wetland restoration and livestock exclusion.
Partners Project Spring Creek Restoration Fairfield, Idaho
Photo taken 8/25/04 of Spring Creek wetland restoration project, Camas County, Idaho, immediately prior to habitat project implementation.
Photo taken 8/9/05 after one year of project implementation by restoring hydrology and management of cattle grazing. Note improvement in willow, grass and wetland vegetation.
Partners Project West Fork of Grove Creek Picabo, Idaho
Photo taken 8/2/04 prior to project implementation. West Fork of Grove Creek, Blaine County, Idaho showing the spring creek with very shallow (less than 4 inches deep) and wide channel from overgrazing and loss of woody riparian vegetation.
Photos taken 7/26/06 after project construction. Note well-defined deeper and narrower spring creek channel with riffles, pools and woody riparian vegetation beginning to reestablish.
Conservation Agreements and Planning in Idaho
It is estimated that two-thirds of our nation's lands are privately owned. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service recognizes that the key to ensuring healthy fish, wildlife and plants and their habitats rests in the hands of private landowners.
Our Conservation Planning Program provides opportunities for the Service to work with interested landowners to restore and maintain quality habitat. Through this Program, Service personnel use collaborative methods to provide technical and financial assistance needed to protect species and enhance the ecosystems upon which they depend. Participation in all programs is voluntary.
We are interested in developing strong partnerships with landowners to manage and conserve native fish, wildlife and plant species such as migratory birds, and threatened, endangered, or other sensitive species. We often work with landowners across the Idaho landscape, including wetland, riparian, sagebrush, grasslands, forest and aquatic habitats.
 
Conservation Planning Tools
Conservation Agreements are tools for non-federal landowners wishing to work with the Service to conserve listed or at-risk species, consistent with existing land use practices and management. Participants in these agreements commit to actions on their property that will reduce threats to species and enhance their conservation.
Agreements may include Candidate Conservation Agreements (CCAs), Candidate Conservation Agreements with Assurances (CCAAs), Habitat Conservation Plans (HCPs) and Safe Harbor Agreements (SHAs). For more information: Conservation Planning Tools in Idaho - Fact Sheets
Examples of Conservation Agreements in Idaho