We had two of the largest field trips ever in 2008 with over 400 cars        on the blowhole field trip. While we have no problem accomodating this number of cars in       the collecting areas (the Company provides very large lots on the salt flats for parking), we       do have a problem with the small lots at the show building. To provide more parking at the       show building, in 2009 we will reorient the south lot (Lot B) to run east-west instead of       north-south. This allows us to use the entire dirt lot to the west of the old lane 1 for parking.       This will increse the size of this lot by about 50 cars. This orientation will also make it easier       to park around the line of power poles that crosses this lot in an east-west direction. The       new parking layout can be found at the 2.               However, to make it convenient for people to reach the collecting areas we will allow drop       offs of people and tools close to the best areas on first arrival. We will also allow you to return       with your car at the end of collecting to pick up your people, tools and specimens.   In 2008 it was clear that 4 port-a-potties at the show       building was not enough. Next year we will add two more, and one will be handicap accessible.   In 2008 our General Store ran out of nearly everything.       We are sorry that we let some of you down. Our goal is to not run out of any field trip supplies,       expecially bottles of brine. Next year we will have even more supplies available, at least if we       can collect enough 2-liter bottles (we need over 1,100 empty, clean, uncrushed bottles).
Searles Lake Gem and Mineral Society
GEM-O-RAMA
 See  Flyer - 2009 Show for dates and times
What's New for 2009 Show
1.   Field Trip Parking. 
To give everyone an equal chance to find good pink halite we will
again require everyone to park their cars in the parking lot adjacent to      the collecting area.
pink halite
3.   Port-a-potties at show building.
4.   Field trip supplies in General Store.
Searles Lake Gem and Mineral Society
P. O. Box 966