that newspapers in Germany, dedicate proportionally twice the coverage to women's sport than the UK press (less than 5%). Did you know
Vote here
Do you think girls are encouraged to play sport as much as boys?
Yes
Free polls from Pollhost.com
Sweat in the City
Run by WSFF in partnership with the Fitness Industry Association (FIA),Sweat in the City is an innovative research project designed to win a better understanding of how to motivate women to become more active.
For 12 weeks (29 September - 21 December), Sweat in the City is offering 3,000 16 – 24 year old women who live in London and currently do little or no exercise, a unique package of free and mentored gym membership. In addition to a gym pass, participantswill receive fortnightly group exercise sessions, exclusive access to the Sweat in the City online social network and support from an online mentor.thst
Former Liberty X singer, Jessica Taylor is urging women from across the Capital to 'work (out) just a little bit more'
Women interested in taking part can register at here they can choose from the over 100 London health and fitness clubs that are donating their facilities and expertise to the programme. www.sweatinthecity.co.uk ,
Official Sweat in the City ambassador, Jessica Taylor is championing the scheme: "Exercise can be daunting" especially if you haven't done any for a while - so it's great to have a scheme like Sweat in the City help make it more social and less scary! Whether dancing or going to the gym, I have always been active so I know the benefits - both physically and in terms of self esteem. I hope other women discover these plus points too."
At the start and finish of the programme participants will be required to respond to a number of questions which will help track any change in attitude concerning physical activity. Participants are also being asked to use the networking function of the Sweat in the City website to log their experiences and swap stories with other young women taking part. The findings will be used by WSFF to inform its ongoing work aimed at creating a nation of active women.
For a list of Sweat in the City excercise classes, open to the women on the programme, please click here
3rd Floor, Victoria House, Bloomsbury Square, London, WC1B 4SE Registered Charity No. 1060267 | |Women's Sport and Fitness Foundation