search the site
Vehicle Registration Requirements
With rare exceptions, the items or information listed below are to apply for an original vehicle registration in NYS. Details about the requirements are provided below or on other pages of this web site, and .all requiredeach link opens in new browser window
for sales taxes and fees Payment
Proof of vehicle ownership
Proof of NYS automobile liability insurance
Proof of NYS payment, exemption or purchase price sales tax
Proof of of the registrant. identity and date of birth
Special requirements and information
Application , from .by mail outside NYS
Vehicle from another nation imported
class registration for a truckPassenger pick up
sales tax deferral,U.S. Armed Forces member form DTF-803
NYS for registrant who was a when the vehicle was purchased, .sales tax exemptionnon-resident of NYS form DTF-803
  certificate of (no registration), vehicles and trailers, insurance exemption for , registrant and owner are , registrant or owner, registration.Special conditions: title only homemade light trailers not the same person more than one partnership or corporation
How to Register Your Vehicle
you buy or receive your new car:Before
Make sure that the legal owner of the vehicle can give you acceptable . proof of ownership
Get the statements from the legal owner that disclose the odometer reading and any previous damage. See "Odometer and Damage Disclosure Statements" below.
Register:
Other FAQs: Vehicle Insurance, Boats, Snowmobiles, ATVs and More
Get an acceptable , sales tax exemption, or proof of the purchase price. If you do not get the acceptable proof of payment or exemption, the DMV collects the sales tax from you. The DMV uses the purchase price or the fair market value of the vehicle to calculate the sales tax that you must pay. The DMV determines the fair market value according to tables provided by the NYS Department of Taxation and Finance. proof of sales tax payment
Read the DMV brochure, "". Let the Buyer Be Aware
What to bring to the DMV office:
. Proof of Ownership
The previous owner must complete the statements on the back of the NYS title certificate for a vehicle that is eight model years old or newer. If the NYS title certificate was printed before December of 1994, there are no statements on the back of the certificate. The previous owner must complete instead of the statements, and you must take form MV-103 to the DMV office. Get more information about . Odometer and Damage Disclosure Statements. form MV-103 vehicle disclosure statements
A The Insurance Identification Card can be a copy or a fax, but the barcode must be readable by a DMV barcode reader. After you buy the vehicle, bring the proof of ownership to an insurance agent or broker authorized to do business in NYS, and get the card. The FS-20 have the same name as the registration application and must have a barcode. The FS-20 must be presented of the effective date of the insurance coverage.  . More information about is available at the DMV Web site. New York State Insurance Identification Card (FS-20).mustwithin 45 daysThe DMV does not accept any out-of-state insurance documents insurance
(Vehicle Registration / Title Application). Form MV-82
Bring cash, a personal check, a credit card or a money order to pay the and . on your personal check until the DMV examines your application.Payment. registration fees sales tax Do not enter the amount
You pay the sales tax, prove that it was paid, or prove your exemption at the DMV office when there is a of NYS applies for a NYS registration or title certificate. You must get a sales tax receipt from the DMV even if the transaction is exempt from sales tax. Proof of sales tax payment, sales tax exemption, or purchase price.mustchange of ownership, a lease agreement, or a new resident
If the that appears on the NYS title certificate , sales tax forms and proofs are not required. See the information below if you were when the vehicle was purchased.name of the ownerwill not changenot a resident of NYS
If you bought the vehicle, bring the dealer's bill of sale that shows that you paid NYS sales tax. Also bring form MV-50 (NYS dealer only) or (out-of-state dealer). If NYS sales tax was paid to a NYS dealer, sales tax is not collected when you apply for a vehicle registration, and the DMV does not issue a sales tax receipt.from a NYS automobile dealer or an out-of-state dealer that is authorized to collect NYS sales tax form DTF-803
If you bought your vehicle from , both the buyer and the seller must complete . Bring the form to a DMV office. The DMV calculates and collects the sales tax, and issues a sales tax receipt.another person in a private sale form DTF-802
If you leased the vehicle, see the information about . leased vehicles
If the vehicle was a or was , use to receive a sales tax exemption.giftpurchased from a family member form DTF-802
If you , show the out-of-state dealer bill of sale. The bill of sale must show the purchase price and the amount of out-of-state sales tax paid to the dealer. Use to claim credit for the state and local sales taxes you paid in the other state. This process can reduce the amount of your NYS sales tax if NYS and the other state have an agreement about sales tax.paid out-of-state sales tax form DTF-804
If you when the vehicle was purchased, use to receive a non-resident exemption from NYS sales tax. Form DTF-803 defines the terms "non-resident" and "resident". were not a resident of NYS form DTF-803
If you are a and you do not reside in NYS, you can your sales tax payment. Complete member of the U.S. Armed Forcesdefer form DTF-803 if:
you are a NYS resident,and
you are now a member of the U.S. Armed Forces,and
you .do not now reside in NYS or keep a residence in NYS
See form DTF-803 for the information and the definitions to defer your sales tax. You when you leave the Armed Forces or you return to NYS.must pay the sales tax
For more information about vehicle sales tax, contact the at 1-800-972-1233 or (518) 485-6800. You can see at the Department of Taxation and Finance web site. NYS Department of Taxation and Finance the current sales tax rates by jurisdiction
At the DMV office:
If another person brings your application to the DMV office, that person must follow the requirements for a . second party registration application
Bring the required documents and forms.  A DMV representative examines your application and documents.
The DMV representative returns your proofs of identity and date of birth. The DMV keeps most of the other proofs and documents.
Pay the sales tax, the registration fee, the fee to transfer the vehicle plates or registration, the title certificate fee and automobile use tax. Determine the . on your personal check until the DMV representative examines your application. cost of your vehicle registration Do not enter the amount
Items you will receive:
The DMV office issues one or two vehicle (unless the registration was transferred). The DMV also issues a to put on the vehicle and a to keep in the vehicle. You can make photocopies of the registration document.platesregistration stickerregistration document
If you get the vehicle from a NYS automobile dealer, you receive an . The sticker allows you 10 days from the registration date to get the vehicle inspected in NYS. Any NYS or out-of-state inspection issued to the is not valid after the vehicle is registered to you. You must have the vehicle inspected.did notinspectionextension stickerprevious registrant
If you are a , your is valid until it expires, or for one year after the vehicle is registered in NYS, whichever comes first. After the inspection expires, you must have the vehicle inspected in NYS. If you receive an inspection extension sticker at the DMV office, destroy the sticker.non-resident who becomes a resident of NYSout-of-state inspection
You receive your new at the DMV office. The DMV mails the new title certificate to you. The DMV can mail the title certificate to the owner listed on the title certificate. Most new title certificates are processed and mailed to you in less than 90 days. Wait 90 days before you contact the DMV about a title certificate you did not receive.do notcertificate of titleonly
Special conditions:
. Also, the proof of ownership for a trailer with an unladen weight of 999 lbs. or less is a transferable registration. You will . All trailers are subject to an annual safety inspection.  With these exceptions, the procedure to register a light-duty trailer is the same as the procedure to register a motor vehicle. Trailers with an unladen weight of 999 lbs. or less and all non-commercial trailers are exempt from the Insurance ID Card requirementnot receive a title certificate
If you a vehicle in your name, but you are (for example a leased vehicle), the owner must complete the owner authorization section of . If , you bring the NYS photo driver license of the owner, or a photocopy of the license, and your own proof of identity and age.registernot the owner form MV-82 the owner is another personmust
If you are , see .not the registrant or the owner second party registration application requirements
If you register a vehicle for a , you must provide proof of a legal partnership. If you register a vehicle for a , provide proof of incorporation. See the instruction for more information. partnershipcorporation form MV-82.1
"California" emissions standard
Your vehicle must comply with the "California" motor vehicle emissions standards unless the vehicle is exempt.  Your vehicle must comply with the California emissions standards if your vehicle has the vehicle is:less than 7,500 miles on the odometer and
a that has a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) ofmodel year of 1996 or newer passenger vehicle or light-duty truck6,000 lbs. or less, or
a that has a GVWR ofmodel year 2000 or newer light-duty truck8,500 lbs. or less, or
a that has a GVWR ofmodel year 2004 or newer medium duty vehicle14,000 lbs. or less, or
a that has a GVWRmodel year 2005 or newer heavy-duty otto-cycle or diesel vehicleover 14,000 lbs.
To determine if a vehicle meets the California emissions standard, look for these words or similar language on the and the :Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin (MCO)emissions label under the hood
"California-Only Vehicle:  This vehicle conforms to U.S. EPA and California regulations applicable to (the vehicle model year) model-year new motor vehicles introduced into commerce only for sale in California."
"50-State Vehicle: This vehicle conforms to U.S. EPA and California regulations applicable to (the vehicle model year) model-year new motor vehicles."
"Federal Vehicle certified for Sale in California: This vehicle conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to (the vehicle model year) model-year new motor vehicles, and is certified for sale in California."
If your vehicle complies with the California emissions standards, but the , you or the automobile dealer can certify compliance on form MV-74.MCO does not indicate compliance or you do not have an MCO
If your vehicle is from the California emissions standards, you or the automobile dealer can complete form MV-74 to certify the exemption if:exempt
the vehicle has an reading ofodometermore than 7,500 miles, or
you that was damaged, stolen or had a mechanical failure while you were outside NYS.purchased the vehicle in another state to replace your previous vehicle
the vehicle was transferred to you through an or , orinheritancecourt decree
the vehicle was when you were a , but you are now a resident of NYS, orregistered to you in another stateresident of that state
you are a NYS resident who serves in the and you are , orUS Armed Forcesstationed in another state
the vehicle is an defined in Article 1 of the NYS Vehicle and Traffic Law.authorized emergency vehicle
Form MV-74 is available at DMV offices.
The web site of the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) has (See Part 218). the regulations for the California emissions standards and other motor vehicle emissions standards
How to Register an Out-of-State Vehicle
How do I register a vehicle in NYS that has a registration document or a title certificate from another state?
If you are a , a vehicle registration from your state of residence is valid in NYS. If you become a of NYS, you have 30 days after you become a resident to register your vehicle in NYS. If you and you get a vehicle from another state, you must register the vehicle in NYS.not a resident of NYS resident are a resident of NYS
Carefully read the information about . You must follow the same registration requirements for an out-of-state vehicle. how to register a vehicle
If you do not have an out-of-state title that displays your name:
If the vehicle is , you must provide the Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin (MCO) and the dealer's bill of sale., does not have a registration document or a title certificate, and was purchased from an out-of-state dealernew
If the vehicle is , provide an out-of-state title certificate or transferable registration transferred to the dealer and the dealer's bill of sale that transfers ownership to you., and was purchased from an out-of-state dealerused
If the vehicle was , provide a bill of sale from the previous owner, and the title certificate or transferable registration that was transferred from the previous owner to you. Get more information about .purchased from a private owner proof of ownership
If there is a lien listed on your out-of state title certificate:
If there is a lien listed on the out-of-state title certificate, the NYSDMV records the lien on your NYS title record and on your NYS title certificate. To remove the lien, you must provide proof that the lien is satisfied. Read these instructions to . remove a satisfied lien from a title certificate
If the original title certificate is in your name but is held by a lienholder:
, you must provide:To get a NYS registration
A copy of the title certificate with your name on it from the lienholder.
The lienholder must that the copy is a copy of the original title certificate. certify
The copy of the title certificate and the certification of the lienholder must be on the .same piece of paper
You must also provide a on the letterhead of the lienholder:statement by the lienholder
The statement must identify the owner, year, make and VIN of the vehicle.
The statement must indicate that the lienholder holds the original title and knows that the owner will use the documents to register the vehicle in NYS.
The statement require the NYSDMV to notify the lienholder when the vehicle is registered in NYS. The NYSDMV does not notify lienholders when a vehicle is registered.cannot
To get a , you must send the to the NYSDMV when the lien is satisfied and you receive the out-of-state title certificate from the lienholder.NYS title certificateoriginal out-of-state title certificate
If you cannot get any of these documents or there are special conditions, . Examples of special conditions include vehicles purchased at an auction or imported from a foreign country, or the vehicle owner is deceased. contact the DMV
The vehicle does not meet "California" emissions standards:
Read the information about to determine if there is an exemption. "California" emissions standards
Register a Vehicle in NYS While You are not in NYS
Can I apply for a NYS registration and title certificate if I am not in NYS?
You can apply for a NYS registration and title certificate by mail from outside NYS. The following information is important:
Contact the motor vehicle agency in the other state to determine if their laws require that you register your vehicles in that state. The definition of "resident" is different in each state. Read the NYS definition of "." resident
To register your vehicle in NYS, you must send your original proof of ownership. If any original documents are lost in the mail, they can be difficult or impossible to replace.and other important documents by mail
You must have valid . You use proof of insurance from another state . It is not easy to get NYS liability insurance from insurance agents or brokers in other states.NYS liability insurancecannotunder any circumstances
Most states allow a non-resident to register a vehicle. It can be easier and faster to apply for a vehicle registration and title certificate in the other state.  You can apply for NYS documents when you return to NYS. Determine if the other state can issue an "in-transit" permit, which allows you to transport a vehicle to NYS so that you can register it.
If you bring a vehicle from another country, you cannot get the required documents from the US Customs Service until the vehicle arrives in the US.
If you understand the information above, see the instructions . to apply by mail while outside NYS
Register a Leased Vehicle
To register a leased vehicle, you must provide:
proof of insurance;
proof of sales tax payment, sales tax exemption or purchase price; and
proof of identity and date of birth.
Get a complete explanation . of the proofs that are required
in NYS, the dealer normally provides all your proofs and your registration application to the DMV.If you leased the vehicle from a dealer
If the , you must provide the proofs all of the documents listed below:dealer does not provide the proofs to the DMVand
You will not receive the original title certificate as proof of ownership. The leasing company is the owner and holds the title certificate, which displays their name. To register your vehicle in NYS, you must provide a photocopy of the title certificate, by the leasing company as a true copy of the original document and the photocopied image of the document, the certification statement must be on the .A copy of the title certificate.certifiedsame side of one sheet of paper
The leasing company must authorize you to register the vehicle in NYS in your name. You can use any one of the following items as your proof of authorization:The authorization to register.
a letter from the leasing company that gives you permission to register the vehicle in NYS, or
a power of attorney from the leasing company that authorizes you to register the vehicle in NYS, or
the signature of a leasing company officer in box 3 on or on . form MV-82 form MV-95
You must provide a copy of your lease agreement that shows the lease payments and the sales tax payments that you and the payments that you .Proof of sales tax payment.did makewill make
If you of all your lease payments, provide your lease agreement that indicates that you paid the NYS sales tax, and complete .paid NYS sales tax to the leasing company or dealer on thetotal amount form DTF-803
If you , provide your lease agreement, and complete . You must pay NYS sales tax at the DMV office on any lease payments if the leasing company or dealer did not collect the sales tax. The sales tax is collected in one complete payment at the time of registration.did not pay NYS tax to the leasing company or dealer on of your lease paymentsall form DTF-802
If you , use to request credit for the tax you paid, and then pay the balance of any NYS sales tax. This process can reduce the amount of your NYS sales tax if NYS and the other state have an agreement about sales tax.made one payment to another state for the total amount of sales tax form DTF-804
If you , complete , and pay the total amount of NYS sales tax in one payment for all the lease payments that remain.made monthly sales tax payments in another state form DTF-802
Registrant and Owner are not the Same Person
Can the registration document and the title certificate for a vehicle show two different names?
Yes. For example, one spouse can be the owner and the other spouse can be the registrant. When a vehicle is leased, the leasing company is normally the owner and the customer is the registrant.
The owner (the name on the title certificate) must authorize the other person to register the vehicle. The owner must complete box 3 on , or complete . form MV-82 form MV-95
When you apply for a vehicle registration, you must provide the . If the proof is a NYS title certificate in the name of the , the title certificate is examined and returned to you at the DMV office. If the proof is a NYS title certificate in the name of the , the DMV keeps the proofs and mails a NYS title certificate to the owner within 90 days. Carefully read the information about for all of the requirements.original proof of ownershipcurrent ownernotcurrent owner proof of ownership
The required liability insurance and not the name of the owner.NYS insurance ID card must display the name of the registrant,
can bring the application for the registration and the title certificate to a DMV office. The person who applies must show the for the registrant and the owner. If you send the application (see ), you can send of the proofs of identity and date of birth.  If you apply by mail, all must be the .Either the registrant or the owneroriginal proofs of identity and date of birth bothby mail "Register Your Vehicle While You are not In NYS" photocopiesother proofsoriginal documents
Vehicle Has More Than One Registrant or Owner
Can a vehicle have more than one registrant? Does the DMV issue registration documents that display more than one name?
Yes. There can be two or more registrants. registrants must sign (Vehicle Registration / Title Application) and provide their . must appear on theBoth form MV-82 proofs of identity and date of birth Both namesInsurance ID Card.
If only one of the registrants is the owner, the owner must complete box 3 on or complete . form MV-82 form MV-95
If there are , you must complete (statement of Partnership or Joint Ownership).more than two registrants form MV-83T
. You must apply for a registration and new vehicle plates in the two names. You the vehicle plates or documents that are assigned to one registrant to a vehicle that you will register with two names.You cannot add a name to a current registrationnewcannot transfer
If there is more than one name on the registration, you can apply for a registration amendment to from the registration.  Complete with the names of the registrants that remain, and show .  There is no fee for the amendment.remove one or more names form MV-82 proofs of identity and date of birth
If there are , you must complete (Statement of Partnership or Joint Ownership).more than two registrants form MV-83T
Can a vehicle have more than one owner? Does the DMV issue title certificates that display more than one name?
Yes, more than one person can own a vehicle, butto transfer ownership, only of the owners is required to sign the title certificate.one
. You must apply for a title certificate that displays the two names. The current owner signs the title certificate to transfer the ownership to the two persons. The two persons must apply for a new title certificate. Learn how to .You cannot add a name to a current title certificatenew apply for a title certificate only
Vehicle Registration Fees
What is the registration fee for my vehicle?
The registration fee for most types of vehicles depends on the weight of the vehicle. When you register a vehicle for the first time, the : the sales tax, a vehicle plate fee or registration transfer fee, a title certificate fee, and vehicle use taxes in some counties.total fees normally include
For , see the . Remember that the amounts shown are the registration fees.passenger cars registration fees and use taxes for passenger vehicles only
For , see the . Remember that the amounts shown are the registration fees. Commercial vehicle registration fees are calculated from the maximum gross weight (MGW) of the vehicle. The MGW includes the weight of the vehicle added to the weight of the maximum load carried during the registration period. Your vehicle cannot exceed the registered MGW.trucks, pick-up trucks and other commercial vehicles registration fees and use taxes for commercial vehicles only
Get information about the differences between and learn how to register a . passenger class and commercial class vehicle registrations pick-up truck with passenger class vehicle plates
How to Replace Registration Items That Were Damaged, Lost or Stolen
that are lost or damaged:Registration documents
if you need to replace a lost or destroyed . If your documents were lost in a crime, read the instructions below.Apply on-line onlycurrent registration sticker, document or both items
Carefully follow these .Apply by mail. instructions
at a .Apply in person DMV office
Custom or personalized plates :only
try to replace custom plates or personalized plates through a local DMV office or by mail. Call the Custom Plates Unit at 1-518-402-4838 between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. weekdays. Call this number if the vehicle plates you lost were .Do notonlycustom plates or personalized plates
or registration itemsStandard series platesanylost in a crime:
— Use the instructions below to replace registration items at a DMV office. You .Standard series plate or plates lostcannot replace vehicle plates on-line, by phone or by mail
-- Go to a police station and have the police complete form MV-78B (Report of Lost or Stolen Motor Vehicle Items). This form is available only from the police, not from the DMV. If the police report indicates that the items were lost in a crime, there is no fee to replace the items. Bring form MV-78B to a DMV office and follow the instruction below. You use form MV-78B to apply . If you apply on-line or by mail to replace registration documents, you must pay a fee of $3.Standard series plates or registration documents lost in a crimecannoton-line, by phone or by mail
What to bring to the : DMV office
A completed (Vehicle Registration / Title Application). form MV-82
The valid NYS Insurance Indentification Card (FS-20) or another acceptable proof of insurance for the vehicle.  Read the instructions on page 4 of . form MV-82.1
If of a set of two is lost, surrender the other vehicle plate to the DMV.  before you surrender a vehicle plate or vehicle plates.  The DMV office will not accept a vehicle plate with a frame or any fasteners attached.one vehicle plateRemove frames and fasteners
If vehicle plates are lost, if the vehicle plates or registration documents are , get form MV-78B completed by the police.bothorlost in a crime
Cash, a personal check, or a credit card to pay the fee if the items were lost in a crime. The fee to replace registration documents only is $3.00. The fee to replace a set of two standard series plates and registration documents is $18.00. For registrations that receive only one vehicle plate (for example, motorcycles or trailers), the fee is $10.50.not
. If another person brings your application to the DMV office, the other person must follow the instructions for a . Proof of identity second party registration application
The DMV replaces your vehicle plates with a set that has a number. Your vehicle plates cannot have the same number they had before.newdifferent
If Your Vehicle is Stolen or is Recovered