-  Surrendering Your Plates
When your vehicle is properly titled and registered in your name, you can purchase different types of license plates for it instead of the standard-issue plates. To purchase plates, you will need your title number and vehicle identification number (VIN), which you can find on your registration card.
If purchasing specialized, personalized, or souvenir plates in person or through the mail, you will also need to complete a . If you instead, you can view samples of all the license plates and see how they'd look if you personalized them. License Plate Application order online
Specialized License Plate Designs
Virginia offers nearly 200 that allow you to promote yourself or a cause. For an extra annual fee, you can get a plate with your university name and logo on it, or promote your rotary club membership or your enthusiasm for bicycles. There are plates representing the military, civic organizations, fraternities and sororities, and hobbyists, just to name a few. special license plate designs
Personalization
You can also personalize your license plates with a special character combination of up to seven letters and numbers. You can to see if your desired personalization is available, and play with it to see what it would look like. check online
There is no obligation when you check online, but if you choose to, you can reserve or purchase your plates online when you find one you like. Personalized plates are just an additional $10 per year.
Souvenir Plates
are reproductions of Virginia license plates, issued for fun displays and as gifts. They are for ornamental use only―it is illegal to display or use a souvenir plate on a motor vehicle. Souvenir plates
You can and it will be mailed to you within four weeks. Orders from outside the United States require extra shipping time. Souvenir plates are just $10 each. They are issued singly. If you want to personalize your souvenir plate with up to seven alphanumeric characters, you can do that for an additional $20. order a souvenir plate online
The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) accepts MasterCard, Visa, and Discover credit cards as well as MasterCard and Visa debit cards. The DMV also accepts for electronic withdrawals from your checking account. If you are ordering , you can also pay by check. bank information in person or through the mail
Drivers with Disabilities
If you are a driver with a disability, whether it's temporary or permanent, you may be eligible to use parking spaces specially reserved for the disabled. To do this, you will have to order to hang from your vehicle's rearview mirror. disability license plates and a placard
Antique Plates
A vehicle must be over 25 years old and used primarily for antique exhibitions, parades, and related activities to qualify for antique status. (The vehicle may be used for infrequent pleasure trips of under 250 miles, and to obtain repair work.)
Should your vehicle meet the antique standards, you may choose to apply for antique plates or vintage plates. The latter are the plates issued in the vehicle's model year. You'll have to supply the vintage plates, however, and the plates must pass an inspection at the . DMV office
The DMV provides a look at the the two types of available. antique plates
To apply for either the antique or vintage plates, complete the following forms: