Sep
09
This SimpleViewer gallery requires Macromedia Flash. Please open this post in your browser or get Macromedia Flash . This is a here
WPSimpleViewerGallery
Sure, we are all impressed by the iPhone 3G’s capabilities, but compared to our current level of global technology, the iPhone is lacking many features that the marketplace is capable of implementing. In Japan, mobile users are paying for movie tickets with their phones, and in Korea, users are monitoring their health in real time thanks to mobile technology. But here in the states, we are years behind what is possible. The technology is there, so why hasn’t it been implemented? Perhaps manufacturers are taking baby steps in utilizing new technology because they want to fully reap the benefits of every single stage of advancement. Perhaps US consumers have a slower rate of adoption than our Japanese counterparts. Whatever reason it may be, expect to see some major changes in the near future. Qualcom’s site, shows three different types of people and their need for new mobile technologies (that are already exist, just not implemented.) Here is a list of existing technologies that pertain to the pictures above. [Via ] wirelesslife.com Baekdal
You are a diabetic and are constantly aware of your blood sugar level. Your mobile device will keep track in real time, as well as displaying your pulse, bodily activity, and number of calories burnt today.Health Tracking
- You are on a bike ride, and you see that some of your friends are nearby on your GPS touchscreen. Your phone displays their location and gives you an option to talk to your nearby friends and/or calculate a route to them.Talk to your friends
3G technology is more than capable of streaming AV data from one device to the next. You call your friend and are able to have a conversation with them, face to face.Video Conferencing
You are perusing the movie posters at the theater and find one you are interested in. You take a picture of the bar-code on the poster, and your phone automatically purchases it using fingerprint authentication.Mobile Payment
While driving, you can speak the text message you want to be sent. Your phone’s software will convert the speech into text so you can avoid an accident.Voice-to-Text
The iPhone is the first phone to utilize 3D gaming technology, so expect to see advancements such as a high-def, multi-player gaming experience.Multi-player Gaming
Youtube 1
Share: