Centennial Initiative 2016
Welcome to Canyonlands!
Canyonlands preserves a colorful landscape eroded into countless canyons, mesas and buttes by the Colorado River and its tributaries. The rivers divide the park into four districts: the Island in the Sky, the Needles, the Maze and the rivers themselves. While these areas share a primitive desert atmosphere, each retains its own character and offers different opportunities for exploration.
 
Join park rangers as they explore the many features of Canyonlands. These three to five minute videos provide an in-depth look at a range of topics...all of which you're likely to experience first-hand when you visit the park.
Inside Canyonlands
more...
 
Discover the destinations Canyonlands has to offer. From scenic overlooks at the Island in the Sky, to the remote canyons of the Maze, to the thunderous rapids of Cataract Canyon, a lifetime of exploration awaits.
Explore the Park
more...
 
Canyon Country Outdoor Education, a cooperative venture between the National Park Service, local school districts and nonprofit organizations, leads school groups on field trips throughout the area. Educators can download curriculum materials for grades one through six.
Curriculum Materials
more...
 
Canyonlands preserves one of the last, relatively undisturbed areas of the Colorado Plateau, a geologic province that encompasses much of the Colorado River and its tributaries. Carved out of vast sedimentary rock deposits, this area possesses remarkable natural features that support a fascinating desert ecosystem.
Nature & Science
more...
 
Canyonlands National Park 2282 SW Resource Blvd. Moab, Utah 84532 General Information (435) 719-2313 Backcountry Information (435) 259-4351 (435) 719-2300
Write to
Phone
Fax
The climate in Canyonlands is extremely dry. Most precipitation falls in early spring and late summer. Summer highs often exceed 100 Degrees Fahrenheit, with lows in the 60's. Fall and Spring temperatures are milder, with highs in the 70's and 80's. Winter temperatures range from highs in the 40's and 50's to lows well below freezing. Snow is usually light to moderate.
Climate
Skip to Search Skip to Navigation Skip to Body Skip to Footer
 
Much of canyon country's annual precipitation falls during summer monsoons. These dramatic storms often last less than twenty minutes but can cause powerful flash floods despite their brevity.Did You Know?