The first type is caused by ongoing lack of adequate nourishment, which eventually leads to weakened joints, and associated with stiffness and soreness.Ayurveda identifies two major categories of joint imbalances.
Maharishi Ayurveda joint health formulations address these underlying imbalances both from the inside and the outside.
Joint Soothe II
Supports natural joint health; a massage oil that alleviates pain, stiffness, and inflammation associated with joint disorders   « details »
Joint Soothe II
Provides natural calcium and increases calcium absorption; supports healthy nerves and joints; nourishes bones   « details »
Calcium Support
Relief for Joint Pain
Looking for osteoarthritis pain relief? Confused by the latest fad for amazing arthritis medicine?
Now you can rest easy with a time-tested, purely natural herbal formula from Maharishi Ayurveda, used for thousands of years to relieve inflamed, sore and stiff joints without negative side effects.
It turns out that there are two common types of joint pain, according to ayurvedic texts. The first is due to malnourished bones or low bone density. The problem starts with pain and a cracking sound when you move your joints, and, if left untreated, can develop into immobilization and degeneration of the cartilage, bone and joints.
This type of joint pain can be helped by balancing Vata dosha, the mind-body principle associated with excessive dryness, weak digestion and lack of absorption of nutrients. Sleeping too little, eating foods that are too dry and light, and leading a lifestyle that is stressful and too busy can be the cause of Vata-based joint pain.
Fortunately, Vata dosha can be balanced by following a nourishing . Regulating your sleep patterns, performing a daily ayurvedic self-massage to improve circulation, and reducing stress are other ways to relieve joint pain. For treating and preventing this type of joint problem, and can help. Vata-pacifying diet Osteo Relief Calcium Support
The second kind of joint pain is caused by digestive toxins building up in the body and accumulating in the joints. Stiffness, heaviness, swelling and pain are the symptoms. Lack of adequate exercise and a diet that is too heavy to digest can contribute, as well as damp, cold weather. Many people find the most amazing arthritis pain relief from eating a purifying, detoxifying diet and engaging in mild exercise. In addition, and are specifically designed to bring joint pain relief for these types of symptoms. Joint Soothe II Flexcel
Of course, as joint problems can become complicated and involve both types of joint pain, it’s always best to for an individualized treatment program. For rheumatoid arthritis pain relief and other arthritis treatment programs, be sure to follow the advice of your doctor. consult an expert trained in Maharishi Ayurveda
 