for identifying these types of books and recommending them for inclusion on our
Success Books List.
Check Out...
the following titles about African American success or written by African American authors to promote success!your 
For your convenience, we are participants in the Amazon.com Associates Program that enables you to purchase any of the following books of interest by clicking on the book title and you will be transported to the Amazon.com web site to conduct the actual purchase transaction. A percentage of your purchase will be paid to The African American Success Foundation in exchange for making this convenience available to you. While it is part of our mission to promote information that highlights African American success and therefore, books and authors addressing such issues, we do not specifically endorse any particular products and have no other relationship with Amazon.com other than that described above. 
Success Books
Basic Black: Home Training for Modern Times
Karen Grigsby Bates and Karen Elyse Hudson, Doubleday, 1996 
Basic Blackis an etiquette book written for the African American community, particularly for people moving into new, oftenintegrated situations--at school, at work, and in the community. Full of information about appropriate behavior at soirees of various sorts, from simple cocktail parties to formal dinners, and about how to plan parties, weddings, even tea parties, Bates and Hudson's advice also includes less obvious subjects such as maintaining family and community ties, taking pride in one's heritage, and coping with racial incidents at work. After an overview of basic rules, the authors cover communicating; life lessons; ating, Mating, and Begetting; planning events; and life milestones, closing with a Q & A section, do's and don'ts, a glossary, and a request for reader feedback.
Beating the Odds: Raising Academically Successful African American Males
Freeman Hrabowski III, Kenneth Maton, and Geoffrey Greif, Oxford University Press, 1998
Hrabowski leads a trio of University of Maryland scholars who describe their institution's science program to enhance the higher educational prospects of high-school-age black American men. (Hrabowski writes that his group is working in a comparable program for young black females.) The cornerstone of success, for anyone of any race, is family stability and support. For the nuances of this in the black context, the authors interviewed sons and parents, representing about 50 families, enrolled in an intensive college-prep curriculum in math and science. They extensively quote their subjects' experiences in child raising, separating those of the fathers, the mothers, and the sons. Summarizing their anecdotes, the authors endorse such time-proven attitudes as valuing achievement, reading constantly and widely, and working hard.
www.africanamericanimages.com
Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu states that many African American students have not fully accepted the responsibility of being a college student. This book is a blueprint in choosing the most appropriate college, making the right decisions while there, and ultimately marketing oneself after graduation.
Black Enterprise Titans of the B.E. 100s: Black CEO Who Redefined and Conquered American Business
Derek Dingle and Earl Graves, John Wiley & Sons, 1999
In , editor-at-large Derek T. Dingle looks more closely at the 11 individuals who operate America's very largest black-owned firms. Among them are the well-known, such as and magazine founder John H. Johnson and Black Entertainment Television creator Robert L. Johnson, along with the not-so-well-known, such as auto dealer and former NFL star Mel Farr Sr. and eople's BankerEmma C. Chappell. Touching upon an array of industries--ranging from media and music to food processing and construction--it presents these assionate, proud and persevering men (and one woman) in illuminating profiles that benefit from the magazine's long-range perspective. They show how both established and emerging leaders have used magination and driveto battle lack of capital, diminished access, and outright racismand still succeed on such a grand level.Black Enterprise Titans of the B.E. 100sJetEbony
Black Entrepreneurs in America: Stories of Struggle and Success
Michael Woodard, Rutgers University Press, 1998
That ace remains a critical and inhibiting factor for African Americans trying to initiate and sustain a business in all geographic regions of this countryis one of the conclusions of the author, who studied the experience of African American entrepreneurs in the U.S. Beginning with a summary of 200 years of African American entrepreneurship, Woodard then provides profiles of 12 entrepreneurs whose life stories are gained through in-depth interviews. The reader learns of the trials and challenges that each faced and gains an understanding of how the normal difficulties of starting a new business are magnified when it is an African American who is the entrepreneur. The author posits that African Americans still do not enjoy full economic rights in this country. Woodard concludes with positive instruction for those seeking to find success in their own businesses, and his insights will be helpful to many readers.
Black FolksGuide to Business Success
George Subira
This book takes a lay person on an insightful trip through the world of investments, business strategy, and financial planning. The title of this stellar guideline may be misleading as it applies to all readers, not only African-American guideline. The author has an uncanny insight into the credit world. He maps out strategies that are essential.
Black Student Guide to College Success, The
Ruby Higgins, William Ekeler, Greenwood Publishing Group, 1993
The book begins with a step-by-step guide to a successful college selection process and freshman year, offering insights invaluable to students, parents, teachers, guidance counselors, and athletic recruiters. Next, notable African-American men and women tell the stories of their own college careers, from admission to graduation, in 27 short, autobiographical essays included in Part Two of the book, ow I Did It The book also features a directory of more than 900 colleges and universities with information and statistics of particular interest to African-American students. The directory includes evaluations and listings of the most prestigious American undergraduate institutions, with detailed information on special programs and activities for African-American students, entries on historically Black U.S. colleges and universities and African and Caribbean institutions, and information on Black Greek letter organizations.
Black Student Guide to High School Success, The
Williams Ekeler (Editor) and L. Douglas Wilder, Greenwood Publishing Group, 1997
This book is designed and written specifically for African American junior high and high school students.It is a step-by-step guide providing much needed strategies, tactics, and tools to help them create successful educational careers in school. From the editor and publisher of the Black Student's Guide to College Success, this guide contains contributed essays by fifteen educators (many from historically black colleges), supplemented by success stories of contemporary black high school students. It will help students to make informed choices, to deal with the challenges and obstacles to high school success both in and out of the classroom, and to complete their high school education. Each essay deals with a specific topic of concern to black high school students and is designed to motivate them to make intelligent choices about their education and their future and to develop pride and self-esteem. 
Black Women in the Academy: The Secrets to Success and Achievement
Sheila Gregory, University Press of America, 1995
This revised and updated edition of lack Women in the Academyadds updated data on the status of Black faculty women, a forty-four-page bibliography, and a new chapter on the status of international faculty women from twenty different countries, to the only study of the decisions of African-American women to remain in, return to, or voluntarily leave the academy. Sheila Gregory creates a conceptual framework from economic, psychosocial, and job satisfaction theories to construct a model to explain the factors that affect the decision patterns influencing career mobility. She uses a survey of the members of the Association of Black Women in Higher Education to illustrate to what degree the designated variables predict decision patterns. Gregory's analysis focuses on the women who remained in the academy, noting that those who did remain were usually successful high-achievers who managed to overcome numerous obstacles involving career and family. The author also provides an outline detailing how to attract and retain talented Black women scholars, along with possible interventions that might help inter-institutional mobility.
Breaking Through: The Making of Minority Executives in Corporate America
David Thomas and John Gabarro, Harvard Business School Press, 1999
Against many obstacles, a few minority executives break through to the highest executive levels in corporate America. The aim of the authors is to explain the processes of growth and advancement that produce minority executives by focusing on three companies that have been successful in developing people of color from entry level to executive. Concealing the identity of those companies in different industries, the authors examine both the individual and the organizational factors influencing minority promotion. Along with a detailed explanation of their research and findings, the authors offer lessons for minority aspirants as well as guidelines for corporations that want to develop minority executives more effectively. Advice to individuals includes building a network of developmental relationships, analyzing the record on minority promotions of a prospective employer, and understanding that race matters but that it alone doesn't determine fate. Their final counsel is that the road to the executive suite must be worth the price extracted from all individuals, especially minorities.