 
fter having successfully marketed a wide range of full-scale projects during four different decades, Mid-Hudson Marketing draws expertise from a broad business perspective and years of hands-on experience. The firm began in downtown Poughkeepsie, New York in a small office in the GSA building adjacent to the Civic Center on Main Street. This was during the mid-seventies when the Civic Center regularly welcomed some of the top musical acts of the time including Bruce Springsteen, James Taylor, and others. Soon thereafter, Mid-Hudson Marketing moved to 35 Market Street, to the Bardavon Building, where it had an extensive suite of offices and a large staff to accommodate such high profile clients as the U.S. Military Academy at West Point's Eisenhower Hall; Dutchess Bank (which eventually became Bank of New York and more recently, Chase); Danish Design Center; the Mid-Hudson Civic Center; Marist, Vassar and Bard Colleges; and others. Time passed and a different era emerged as a result of the changing business climate in the Hudson Valley and nation, prompting Mid-Hudson Marketing to move uptown to Poughkeepsie's glamorous 11 Raymond Avenue location near Vassar College where it served a diverse group of successful clients for more than 22 years. These included the Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation; the Veterans' Administration at Castle Point and Montrose; Tuckahoe Roofing; Manfredi Contracting Corporation; the Eastern Pharmaceutical Technology Companies; and many others. Currently, in its 34th year, Mid-Hudson Marketing has chosen to work from a serene lakeside location in Eastern Dutchess County's Holmes, in the Town of Pawling, where the environmental beauty inspires creativity and winning strategies for local, regional, national and international clients of outstanding repute. These include members of the legal community, as well as the engineering, real estate, roofing, healthcare, financial, home improvement, manufacturing and international scientific industries.
Using proven principles of marketing applicable to any type of business, Mid-Hudson Marketing's experience and versatility represent a wide variety of industry perspectives including:
 
 
 
• Architecture • Construction • Education • Engineering • Entertainment • Environmental Services • Fashion • Finance • Flooring • Food and Dining • Government • Healthcare • Home Improvement • Interior Design • Landscaping • Law • Leisure • Manufacturing • Pharmaceuticals • Real Estate • Roofing • Travel • Non-Profit Organizations
 
 
 
The firm's marketing efforts produce immediate business stimulation, often generating long-term revenues and countless referrals over time.
 