1--- Crust Combine honey, yeast, water. Let dissolve and sit for 7-10 minutes. Stir in salt, Splenda, flours, paprika, and gluten (last added). Hand knead for 5-7 minutes. Really work it to activate gluten. Knead into ball and place in non-stick sprayed bowl and cover with damp cloth or towel. Let stand for 45 min to 1 hr. 2--- In meantime, Sauce With fists, crush roma tomatoes and half of your beefsteak tomato in bowl until desired consistency. Drain off excess juice (you want this to stay on your crust and not make it soggy). Mince garlic and oregano if fresh. Combine all three. 3--- Auxillery Thinly slice remaining beefsteak tomato. Slice Mozzarella into 1/5 inch slices. 4--- It's Time NOTE: if you can come across a pizza brick you're in the cool club. If you can stop by your local lumberyard and by a single saltillo tile, this will work fine. Pizza bricks or the saltillo tile will draw moisture from your crust as it cooks and give your the best results. Plus, it will impress your friends. Divide dough in half and press out two crusts on non-stick sprayed pizza baking pans (if you don't have a brick of saltillo tile). Drizzle 1/2 tbs EVOO on top of crust and spread to cover. Spoon thin layer of tomato sauce on crust and place sliced tomatoes as desired. Sprinkle garlic salt over sauce. Set oven to 450 degrees. No need to preheat. Place crust in middle oven. Bake for 7-15 minutes, opening the oven every minute or so to release moisture (some people even leave their oven open a bit). You don't want your crust to be done, but if it's thin enough it should start browning on the edges. Remove from oven and add pesto just as the tomato sauce was added. Set oven to Broil. Add Pepperoni or sub as desired. Top with sliced Mozzarella. Don't place cheese close together or on top of each other. The mozzarella is the gift of the pizza and you don't want there to be a bit in each bite. Also, if you layer the cheese it won't cook the way you like. Place back in Oven on top rack. Broil until cheese bubbles and browns. Remove, let cool for a few minutes and enjoy.
Gourmet Pesto Whole Wheat Pizza w/ Pepperoni and Fresh Tomatoes
Servs: 6  Makes: 2 Pizzas  Prep: 45m  Cook: 20m  
Ingredients
(You can always purchase "just add water" pizza crusts, or any pre-made crust, but to make your own...there's nothing better)
Crust -