Low Budget Wedding, Low Budget Weddings, Weddings on a Budget
COMPLETE LOW BUDGET WEDDINGS
hen you select one of our all inclusive wedding packages for your special day ~ you can be a worry free bride! Imagine, you get to make all the fun choices and selections, while we do all the hard work! We believe a bride, groom and their family and friends should actually be able to enjoy this special day! So,we take care of it all. From the minister, flowers and food to the event staff and setup and cleanup, plus more! Just bring the groom, dress and rings!
Learn more about our Budget Wedding Packages by clicking on any of the packages below,they are all all-inclusive!
Our Package Weddings are All Inclusive and Our Locations are Incredible! We Book Up To A Year in Advance - Don't Lose Your Date - ! 1-877-337-0011 or 909-337-0074
Contact Us
“Let us exceed your expectations without exceeding your budget.”
A great package at a great price! Your wedding day will be orchestrated to your wishes by one of our professional wedding coordinators. Plus, all you need for your complete event is included! You and your spouse shouldn't have to worry about details on your special day! You get caught up in the romance, we'll take care of the hard work. From the location, cake, and minister to the event staff, deluxe dinner buffet, flowers and much more...you get it all. Click the link below for more information and photographs. The Affordable All Inclusive Wedding Package
For Weddings of 50-150 People
   Get more information on this incredible All Inclusive Wedding >>
Whether you want an intimate or grand size wedding, this package includes all you need. including the location, ceremony, reception, cake, minister, planning, staff, setup, cleanup and much more. Learn more and see more photos by clicking the link below. The Lake Arrowhead Wedding Package
For Weddings of 25-150 People
You will truly enjoy the company of your new spouse as we take care of everything
   Get more information on this Inclusive Wedding Package >>
This spacious banquet hall is ideal for a wedding anytime, year-round. In Spring you'll enjoy the flowering trees in front, in Summer, the lovely lake views, in Fall you'll love the changing colors of the trees, and, in Winter, the roaring fire in the grand fireplace. This historic location was once a Country Club frequented by the likes of Frank Sinatra and is now open for use by the public! Our wedding package offers all you need for your wedding, including flowers, photography, cake, minister, wedding coordinator and much more! Click the link below to learn more and see photos! The St. Moritz Lodge Wedding Package
For Weddings of 50-275 People
   Get more information on this Mountain Wedding Package >>
Mountain weddings offer stunning views, fresh air and lake front venues. This wedding package is set in legendary Big Bear, California and includes everything you need for your special day. You will fall in love with the majesty of Big Bear Lake, and you will love your wedding even more! You will enjoy an exquisite buffet dinner prepared specially by our professional Chef, have your own wedding planner, and everything else you need to make your wedding complete - including flowers, minister, decor and more! See more photos by clicking on the link below. The Big Bear Wedding Package
For Weddings of 50-250 People
   Get more information on this Big Bear Wedding >>
It is not too good to be true ~ it is real! An incredible wedding package at an affordable price! Ideal for couples who want to have everyone - or, almost everyone present for their special day! You enjoy your package including you own wedding coordinator who will orchestrate your rehearsal and wedding day to your wishes! Make all the fun choices, we'll take care of all the work. Our philosophy is that is how a wedding should be. Your wedding package includes everything you need - just bring the dress and the rings! The Wedding Package
For Weddings of 50-250 People
   Get more information on this Complete Wedding Package >>
You can't get closer to the water than this - you are on the water! Incredible photo opportunities and setting. Enjoy the pristine alpine lake and the company of your loved ones while we handle all the details. Click the link below for more details and photographs. The Boat Wedding Package
For Intimate Weddings of 25-50 People