Complete Entertainment Packages for your home
" DSL and Wireless Broadband " Dial-up Service Plans " Local Telephone and VoIP Plans " Advanced Cable Television "
Features for Your Home.
View Channel Line Ups Call 888-960-LiNK
Arialink offers residents of select residential communities exciting advancements in the broadband experience. Services include Best of all, bundling all your services with Arialink saves you serious cash! Call today for availability. services to several cities in Michigan. To determine if you qualify for service, please complete the You can also reach our residential sales department 24 hours daily by calling 888-960-LiNK. for select residential market areas and select apartment communities. We utilize the most advanced technologies such as Fiber Optics, DSL and Wi-Fi, offering the highest speeds, greatest reliability and a superior broadband experience. Select below or call today for information on the products and services available to your area.Get the Arialink Triple Play:
Digital Cable TV with 35 HD Channels, High Speed Internet and Enhanced Telephone Services.
Arialink offers DSL and Wireless Broadband Pre-Qualification Form.
Arialink offers high quality broadband services
Check back often - our service areas are expanding rapidly.
Call 888-960-LiNK
High Speed Internet
Apartment and Residential Communities
Arialink offers residents of select residential communities exciting advancements in the broadband experience. Services include Digital Cable TV, 35 HD Channels, High Speed Internet over Cable Modem and wireless Hot Spot and broadband enhanced Telephone Services. Best of all, bundling all your services with Arialink saves you serious cash! Call today for availability today! • Fiber-To-The-Home Developments • Internet speeds up to 20 Mb • Wireless Hot Spots • Digital Television Experience • On-Demand Multimedia Entertainment • Broadband enhanced Telephone Services. Arialink offers Dialup Services for personal and business use, with coverage plans reaching over 10,000 national local calling areas. Our state of the art dialup system is truly a step above the aging technology traditionally used in older ISP's. 100% Cisco Powered modems mean the fastest speeds and v.92 call waiting compatability.Broadband Services for your Neighborhood.
Call Arialink today 888-960-LiNK
Arialink offers broadband offers unique partnership opportunities with apartment communities looking for exciting new products and services which greatly enhace the marketability of your property - call today and we'll show you how to increase your income potential.Attention Apartment Owners!
Digital Voice
Telephone and VoIP Services
Arialink's Basic phone service is offered with unlimited minutes. This is bundled with the same line used to deliver broadband Internet services. Utilizing our advanced integrated services platform, you can save money while dramatically improving features previously unavailable on the traditional telephone network. Bundle and Save! Arialink offers local and long distance telephone services both as bundled or dedicated services. Let us demonstrate how bundling telephone service with your Internet service can save up to 50% of your telecom costs. Utilizing our advanced integrated services platform, your can save money while dramatically improving features previously unavailable on the traditional telephone network.Arialink offers local and long distance telephone services
Call Arialink today: 888-960-LiNK
Cable TV
Advanced Digital Television
With the touch of a button, you have thousands of hit shows and movies ready to watch when you are. Arialink Cable TV is your connection to classic entertainment. Watch the best television networks, must-see new series and latest local news. More choice, more control, more entertainment. Access thousands of movies, hundreds of TV channels and more with your remote. The future of television has never looked better. Find out how much more enjoyable HDTV makes your television viewing experience. You can get all this for one great monthly rate. Or save even more with when you bundle Cable TV with High-Speed Internet or Phone all on one convenient bill.Arialink Digital Cable
Call Arialink today: 888-960-LiNK
822 Centennial Way, Suite 250
Lansing, Michigan 48917