Editing
 
The Commonwealth of Learning in Vancouver, BC posted on its page tips for effective video streaming which include: Video/videoconferencing in Support of Distance Education
Events should be under 90 minutes, and structured around a few basic themes. Thirty to 60 minute events are considered most effective
Use good quality equipment and check wiring connections; a faulty connection can cause loud background noise
Use a clip-on microphone or a podium microphone directly attached to your recording device, to reduce background noise
A simple backdrop for the subject is best
Close shots with minimal movement work better than far away or "action" shots of the subject
Avoid a lot of camera movement or zooming, which are difficult to effectively compress; use motion only where it clearly compliments the learning experience, as when demonstrating an action relevant to the topic presented
Visuals that accompany a video presentation should be simple but effective, including a mix of photos, simple graphics and well-designed text.
Videos can be produced for multiple delivery methods including PSAs, VHS, DVD, kiosk and online delivery. Other content may be rendered solely for web site viewing or video emails.
Programs can be produced by internal staff with minimal out of pocket expense. Outside services may donate time and materials in trade for credits and identification as sponsors in the finished product. As an example, a collaboration of multiple resources -- curatorial, communications and publications staff members at the Georgia Art Museum, museum docents, a professor in the University of Georgia's Lamar Dodd School of Art, a convention and visitors bureau, a local public relations firm and other organizations -- enabled the production of a well-received 15 minute video in connection with the exhibition in celebration of the 100th birthday of Andrée Ruellan, an artist whose career spans the 20th century. Click to learn more about this video.Andrée Ruellan's 100th Birthday, here
Public television stations can be approached to assist in programming. Numerous examples of art museum/PBS affiliate collaborations are listed in TFAO's and catalogue. Examples of online video Videos -VHS
Nationwide, there are many other resources for original programming.[2]An example of a non-profit specialty organization is which produces arts-related content for non-commercial projects. Bay Area Video Coalition is located at 2727 Mariposa Street, 2nd Floor, San Francisco CA 94110. Phone: 415.558.2101 or 415.861.3282. For a national resource guide on locating local videographers see the provided by Respond. BAVC Executive Production search page
In connection with an upcoming project, TFAO has obtained pricing for production and editing services. Other pricing information is also included. These quotes may be insightful for museums' budgeting and bidding processes. See TFAO's. Videography production and editing costs
 
A note on promotional videos
Promotional videos are used as a marketing tool to appeal for funding and volunteer support. Speakers representing a museum often circulate among local service organizations using videos help to raise awareness and money, and to seek volunteers. Development volunteers or staffers use these typically five to seven minute videos when speaking to planned giving prospects and to continuing education groups of CPAs. Videos are also used at galas. Clips from videos are useful for PSAs. A worthwhile by Ted Needleman, which initially appeared in , August 1, 2001, was reproduced with permission by the . Although now outdated in terms of equipment and software advances since the article was written, it explains how to use sweat equity and creativity to produce an inexpensive yet adequate promotional video. article The Nonprofit Times Benton Foundation
 
Glossary of video terms
For definitions of basic video terms see the provided by Panasonic. For a more complete list see the provided by Videomaker.com. glossary glossary
 
1. Dr. Mitchell is the senior manager of QuickTime and Digital Publishing for the Apple corporate education leadership team.  Keith is the currently the content manager for the Apple Learning Interchange, Apple's online resource for professional educators.  Keith works with educators in publishing exhibits of practice, using video to show exciting uses of technology in the classroom.   The exhibit Videography Tips and Techniques for Educators was developed to support educators who were publishing video on the Learning Interchange. Additionally, Keith works with content contributors such as NASA, the Smithsonian, The Field Museum, Ball State Electronic Field Trips and others who publish streaming video content on the Apple Learning Interchange. Prior to his current work, Keith represented Apple as an educational technology consultant to public schools. His Ph.D. is in Science Education from the University of Texas Austin. Prior to Apple, Keith was at the Texas Education Agency as an educational technology consultant and taught high school science for ten years.
2. For an example of superior production and online presentation quality, see Curator Deborah Epstein Solon narrate a video on the exhibition "" held at the Monterey Museum of Art and the Laguna Art Museum. [4 minutes, 41 seconds] In and Out of California, Travels of American Impressionists
Go to: