There is some confusion about the different types of financial aid that are available to today's college students. One of the most frequently asked questions concerns the difference between grants and scholarships.
Grants and Scholarships
Grants and scholarships are similar in that they are both essentially free money that does not need to be repaid/span> and for that reason they should be the type of student financial aid you seek first, before you consider loans. Grants and scholarships are different, however, in their sources of funding, the purposes they support, and the basis they are awarded on.
Grants
Grants are disbursed on the basis of a student financial need, or in order to support a specific project, which is generally research. Most grants are federally sponsored, meaning that they are paid for at least in part by federal funds. The process of applying for grants begins with completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (). FAFSA
Scholarships
Scholarships are an entire area unto themselves. They are often funded by private organizations or individuals, and may be used to support either very broad or very targeted goals. Many scholarships are awarded on the basis of merit, regardless of the recipient financial need. Scholarships may involve only modest amounts of money, or be available to a limited pool of applicants for example, an annual civic club scholarship of $500 may be available only to recent graduates of the local high school. Because scholarships tend to award merit, however, even small awards carry a value beyond their financial worth by indicating that this group or individual thought you were outstanding in some way. To find out more about scholarships and how to find and apply for them, go to the of our website. college scholarships section
Work Study Programs
Work study programs are administered by colleges and universities, and provide recipients with a certain number of hours of paid work over the academic year. In addition to providing much needed funds, work study programs can provide you with great work experience. Co-ops (work-study agreements that involve off-campus employment) in particular can help you make contacts with potential employers and lead to a job when you graduate. They can also help you make sure that you are happy with the career your college major is preparing you for, before graduation. The value of this can be vouched for by the many graduates who change careers soon after graduating from college, when they find out that they just don't like the kind of work their degree qualifies them for.
Alternative Programs
While we do not wish to write volumes on the subject, our discussion of types would not be complete without mentioning alternative financial aid programs. Military enlistment, employer support, and various tax credits may all be worth further investigation, depending on your situation, needs, and interests. financial aid
Loans