 
A World Class Country Inn Catering To Discerning Diners And Travelers
The Brewster Inn was built in 1890 as the summer home of financier Benjamin B. Brewster, who was the first Brewster to leave the ministry since elder Brewster, a head Pilgrim. Benjamin Brewster along with John D. Rockefeller, Sr., established the Standard Oil company. The Inn's elegance is richly enhanced by exquisite woodwork, including solid mahogany and antique quartered oak. Today, The Brewster Inn is a truly fine country inn catering to discerning diners and travelers. The quaint and lovely village of Cazenovia, which was founded in 1793, is a short walk from the Inn. Its attractive shops make browsing a leisurely adventure. Visitors can also tour Lorenzo, the magnificent estate of the founder of Cazenovia, John Lincklaen, picnic at the spectacular Chittenango Falls, and walk the beautiful grounds surrounding Cazenovia College. I look forward to sharing with you the beauty and rich history of Cazenovia and The Brewster Inn.
The Brewster Inn offers gourmet dining in three candlelit rooms adorned with silver and crystal. An expertly trained staff assists you with selections from our award-winning wine list, the perfect complement to a supurb menu. The new Terrace Bar, with its panoramic view of Cazenovia Lake, offers casually elegant dining in a room richly appointed with handmade cherry wine racks and furniture, and which opens onto a large terrace for al fresco dining.
Overnight guests choose from guest rooms in the main house or in the completely renovated carriage house. Each of the Inn's comfortable accommodations, including a three-room deluxe suite, has a private bath, television, air conditioning, and telephone. Four rooms feature Jacuzzi baths and/or fireplaces. Upon waking, relax over a complimentary continental breakfast while overlooking the serene waters of Cazenovia Lake. After breakfast, stroll in Inn's extensive shoreline and secluded grounds which provide the perfect setting for carefree relaxation — sunning on the lawn, swimming and fishing in the clear lake waters, or cross-country skiing and skating during the winter.
Please let me know you saw this site on the World Wide Web.
Richard and Patricia Hubbard Innkeepers
 