   
Calories In Starbucks Desserts
Keep in mind that although some of the following delectable desserts at Starbucks are high in calories and fat, Starbucks offers many diet friendly selections that will help keep your diet on track while keeping the 'element of fun' in your daily routine.
The key in keeping your diet on track is knowing the amount of calories/fat contained in the goody BEFORE enjoying.
For a more detailed list of all of Starbucks' wonderful treats, including coffee& beverage calories click on the following links: | | Bakery Items Coffees & Beverages Cheesecakes
 
Starbucks Plain Bagel, 280 calories, 0 fat grams, 62 carbs
Starbucks Multigrain Bagel, 280 calories, 3 fat grams, 60 carbs
STARBUCKS CROISSANTS
Starbucks Butter Croissants, about 380 calories
Starbucks Almond Croissants, about 520 calories
STARBUCKS CAKES, BROWNIES & CINNAMON ROLL
Starbucks Cappuccino Brownie, 350 calories, 18 fat grams, 48 carb grams
Starbucks Carrot Cake with nuts, 1 slice 420 calories, 28 fat grams, 40 carb grams
Starbucks Iced Lemon Pound Cake, 1 slice 420 calories, 14 fat grams, 78 carb grams
Starbucks Reduced Fat Blueberry Coffee Cake, 310 calories, 10 fat grams, 58 carb grams
Starbucks Cinnamon Roll, 470 calories, 16 fat grams, 76 carb grams
STARBUCKS COOKIES
Starbucks Chocolate Chunk Cookie, 1 cookie- 380 calories, 18 fat grams, 50 carb grams
Starbucks Chocolate Truffle Cookie, 1 cookie - 370 calories, 23 fat grams, 49 carb grams
Starbucks Peanut Butter Cookie, 1 cookie - 410 calories, 23 fat grams, 46 carb grams
STARBUCKS MUFFINS & SCONES
Starbucks Reduced Fat Cranberry Muffin, 340 calories, 4.5 fat grams, 69 carb grams
Starbucks Cranberry Orange Muffin, 420 calories, 16 fat grams, 63 carb grams
Starbucks Pumpkin Scone, 490 calories, 20 fat grams, 72 carb grams
 
More Weight Loss Articles at Diet Bites
Simplifying Weight Loss
Bad Foods vs Good Foods- Which foods are bad and which foods are good? Sometimes it's good to be naughty. continue
7 Hot Tamales - Is your diet a real gas in a bad way?The reasons why and how to turn down the gas while your weight loss scales deflate. continue
Quickly Boost Diet Motivation - How to Go From Meow to Roar- If you're having trouble 'getting in the mood' when it comes to losing weight, try this original weight loss motivation tip from Diet Bites. continue
Diet Tips - Way-easy diet tips to enhance your diet plan. continue
Diet Bites 3 Day High Fiber Diet -It's the dawn of the Age of Fiber - and lucky you, because a diet rich in fiber will not only help erase those pesky pounds, it can also bump-up the grade on anyone's Health Report Card. continue
French Fry Comparison- Fast food french fry calorie comparison. continue
Hamburger Comparison- Fast food hamburger calorie comparison. continue
Complete Proteins- How to use food combining to create complete proteins. continue
Why Buy the Cow When You Can Get the Skim Milk for Free?
Copyrighted Sky At Dawn Publishing - All Rights Reserved
Diet Bites is a Trademark
Site Disclaimer & Copyright Notice
Diet Bites makes dieting fun just for you!
The material within the Diet Bites Weight Loss Diet Program website is for informational purposes only and not intended as medical treatment or to replace a doctor's professional advice. Our reference at Diet Bites is Tom, a biologist and naturalist. Sky is a qualified nutritionist.   Diet Bites is a unique free Weight Loss Diet Program that pivots on savvy diet motivation , a healthy daily diet, calories as well as counting calories, a healthy weight loss process, sound diet advice, safe diet tips, and foods based on the nutritional USDA food pyramid and food index guide. We hope that you will make Diet Bites an important part of your weight loss diet program, whether you choose our free weight loss program or are currently using another to meet your weight loss goals .  From carb restricted diets, counting calorie diets, weight loss reduction programs to counting fat grams - must choose which weight loss program is best for .  Make it safe, make it fun and keep healthy!  We do advise that you steer away from unhealthy fad diets, such as theyouyou Cabbage Soup Diet - as well as liquid dieting which we feel are  risky weight loss programs. Here's wishing you great weight loss and fitness success and optimum health - always! Unless otherwise noted, all the content at Diet Bites is copyrighted and protected under copyright law.  Please contact site for permission to use content at Diet Bites.  Feel free to link to articles . Diet Bites is a registered trademark.
 