  |  |  | Graduate Catalog Undergraduate Catalog Certificates Student Learning
Disability Accommodations
This institution complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and state and local requirements regarding students with disabilities. In compliance with federal and state regulations, reasonable accommodations are provided to qualified students with disabilities. A request for accommodation is deemed reasonable if the request:
is based on documentation that meets APUS published guidelines.
does not compromise essential requirements of a course or program.
does not impose a financial or administrative burden upon APUS beyond that which is deemed reasonable and customary.
The essential requirements of an academic course or program need not be modified to accommodate an individual with a disability.
Students whose accommodation requests are denied will not be discriminated or retaliated against if they appeal the decision. 
It is the students responsibility to identify him/herself to the university as having a disability, and submit any required documentation, prior to engaging in any activity for which accommodation is being requested.  For example, a request to retake a test or course due to a disability will not be considered for a test or course that a student has already taken. Since the documentation and review process may take some time, currently diagnosed students should submit any requests for a disability accommodation as soon as they are admitted to a program and prior to registering for courses.Disability Accommodation Process
No accommodations may be made prior to the notification of disability and the submission of documentation.
Students must identify themselves to the DSA Officer and provide the required documentation as outlined in the Documentation Requirements below at least 30 days in advance of the start of the accommodation being requested. 
It is the students responsibility to ensure that documentation meeting the published requirements is submitted 30 days prior to the start of accommodations.
STEPS TO REQUESTING DISABILITY ACCOMMODATION:
Student submits a written statement to the Disability Services Accommodation office outlining his or her disability. Statements can be emailed to . DSA@apus.edu
Student submits documentation on the disability and accommodation request that meets the Documentation Guidelines below.
The DSA Officer will review the documentation with the Disability Support Services Committee.
The DSA Officer will notify the student in writing to the students email address on record of the decision within 15 days of receipt of all required documentation.  If further documentation is required, the DSA Officer will notify the student by email of what further information is needed.
If a faculty member is required to make accommodations, that faculty member will be notified by the Registrars office. Only information regarding the approved accommodation will be shared with the faculty member; no medical history will be released.
Students whose disability accommodation requests are denied or adjusted may submit an appeal in writing to the University Provost. The appeal must be within 15 days of the accommodation being denied and should be emailed to .   Documentation to request accommodations based on a disability must be provided by the student and at the students expense. Documentation must follow the guidelines listed below:Appeal Process
Documentation Requirements
AGE OF DOCUMENTATION
For Learning Disability Accommodations, should be no older than 3 years if student is under 21 years of age. Older documentation may be considered for students who are over 21 as long as the clinical testing was completed since the student reached the age of 18.
For Mental Disability Accommodations, should be clinical documentation from within the last 6 months.
For Physical Disability Accommodations, if the physical disability is a permanent condition, documentation of any age may be considered. For a physical disability that is based on a temporary condition, such as weakness caused by chemotherapy or other short-term treatments, clinical documentation should be less than one year old.
NECESSARY INFORMATION ON DOCUMENTATION
Should include the professional credentials of the evaluator, including what training and experience the evaluator has with the diagnosis and treatment of adults. The evaluator should be a licensed professional in the appropriate field and qualified to diagnose adults.
Should include a specific medical diagnosis of the physical, mental or learning disability.
Should include the names of the diagnostic tests used, evaluation dates, test scores and interpretation of test results.
Should describe how the students is limited in functionality in a major life activity.
Should include specific accommodation recommendations that are tied to the diagnosis and how the accommodations will impact the specific functional limitations of the student.
WAYS TO SEND YOUR DOCUMENTATION
Fax to 304-724-0909
Scan and email to DSA@apus.edu
Mail to APUS  ATTN:  Disability Accommodations  10110 Battleview Parkway Suite 114 Manassas, VA  20109
Students should contact the Disability Accommodations Officer at for any information regarding disability accommodations.Disability Services Accommodation Officer Contact Information