About the Nile Basin Research Programme (NBRP)
Full version of the project document . here
The Nile Basin Research Programme (NBRP) is a strategic, multidisciplinary programme for research and education on topics related to the Nile Basin. The programme is in line with principles and guidelines for co-operation in the region, as stated in:
Policy guidelines of the Nile Basin Initiative Strategic Action Programme
Nile Basin Initiative - Applied Training Project (Shared Vision Programme)
“Declaration of the African University in the Third Millennium” by the Association for African Universities
The NBRP will serve as an overall framework and catalyst for activities and initiatives reflecting research and educational priorities of Nile Basin researchers.The programme targets both post doctoral and senior researchers at institutions of research and higher education in the Nile Basin countries and is complementary to the ATP in adding a research component to the programme.
The programme is associated with the Applied Training Programme (ATP) under Nile Basin Initiative’s (NBI) Shared Vision Programme (SVP). NBRP consists of, and will support sustaining activities and initiatives, and will take the form of individual and joint research, joint development of research projects, establishment of Nile Basin research groups, and dissemination of knowledge and research results through seminars, workshops, and publications. It is a priority to strengthen existing networks, as well as initiating new ones. Development of joint educational programmes reflecting the needs and priorities of the Nile Basin countries should also be given priority.
NBRP is located at the University of Bergen (UiB). UiB has a significant research community focusing on Nile Basin related issues, and an extensive research collaboration with countries in the region.
Within this framework, NBRP aims to foster activities that will contribute to competence and capacity building in research and education in the Nile Basin countries. NBRP has been endorsed by Nile-COM and Nile-TAC and is funded through additional funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) and the University of Bergen.
This Programme Document has been worked out in collaboration between the University of Bergen and the national coordinators of the Applied Training Project of the NBI-SVP. NBRP is based on discussions between NBI, MFA, NORAD, and UiB.
Full version of the project document here
 