Availability:Usually ships in 1-2 business days
Shipping:Expedited shipping available
Shipping:International shipping available
Condition:A former rental, VHS, top flap has a small crease, we ship within 24 hours, satisfaction guaranteed.
Similar Items:
Edward(San Francisco)
79 out of 79 found this review helpful
Frances Hodgson Burnett, who was born in England in 1849 but came to America as a young woman, had her novel "The Secret Garden" published in 1909; and ten years later it was made into a silent movie. Whether or not a copy of that film exists, I have no idea. In 1949, the centennial of the author's birth, M~G~M released its remake of the novel starring the popular child actress of the 40's Margaret O'Brien (the refreshingly morbid Tootie of "Meet Me in St Louis"), who was just entering her teens. Frances Hodgson Burnett had been somehow involved in Helena Blavatsky's Theosophy Society, and its mystical influence is evident in "The Secret Garden", elements which Robert Ardrey tried to maintain in his intelligent screenplay. Symbolism abounds, from the key-finding raven to the smashed wine glass. The story of a spiteful, selfish girl Mary Lennox who (after her parents' deaths in India) must live with her embittered uncle, a widower, and his crippled son Colin on their gloomy Yorkshire estate, the plot follows the girl's obsession with death and her realization, through the "resurrection" of a dead garden, of life's positive aspects. Filmed in an almost forbidding black-and-white, the picture turns into three-strip Technicolor once Mary and the "nature boy" Dickon enter the garden they have transformed into a secluded Eden. (Evidently the Technicolor was meant to be a surprise for 1949 audiences, because it's not mentioned in the opening credits, only at The End.) Margaret O'Brien is excellent as Mary, slowly changing from brat to sensitive young lady. The only drawback is the constant references to how unattractive the character is; obviously, Miss O'Brien was growing into a beauty. Dean Stockwell is properly imperious as Colin, who also undergoes a metamorphosis under the garden's spell. (There's a remarkable scene where the two misfits try to out-tantrum each other.) As Dickon, Brian Roper was pefectly cast and gave a good performance, then simply disappeared. Character parts are ably filled by Herbert Mashall as Colin's father, Elsa Lanchester as a giggling but shrewd Yorkshire maid, Gladys Cooper as the stern housekeeper, and Reginald Owen as Ben Weatherstaff, the secretive gardener. Directed with great skill by Fred M Wilcox (who was never allowed his full potential), this is probably the best screen version of "The Secret Garden" you're going to find.
One of the better films of this great storyJune 4, 1999
30 out of 30 found this review helpful
I have always loved the story of The Secret Garden. I have seen the 1993 movie with Kate Maberly, the 1987 TV-film with Gennie James, and a production for the BBC from the 70's or 80's. This movie is one of the better versions. It certainly gives you the uplifting feeling of the book. It is indeed very atmospheric, and it was a nice touch to film most of it in balck-and-white but the last two sequences in the garden in color. Not only does it better showcase the gorgeous flowers in the garden, but, like The Wizard of Oz, it is a great symbol of a save haven from the drab world outside. Herbert Marshall's portrayal of the uncle owes a great deal to Hitchcock, for whom he worked several times. Not only is Marshall's Mr. Craven a sad, miserable man, but he thinks he's going insane. Margaret O'Brien and Dean Stockwell are good as Mary and Colin, even though O'Brien never quite stops being imperious, even after she learns to love other things besides herself. A truly good film for the whole family, and one that does justice to a great story.
Great film - restoration neededDecember 15, 2004
Pope(Wisconsin, United States)
19 out of 19 found this review helpful
I had only seen this film I think once before the 1993 remake was released, and the latter was the version I grew up with. I never realized how great a film the 1949 original really was until I rediscovered it when it aired on TCM on Christmas Eve two or three years ago. What a beautiful and extraordinary film! Although its obviously confined to soundstages at MGM Studios, the film more than makes up for that in its cast and cinematography. The majority of this film is shot in Black and White, but note well the use of Technicolor in some of the garden sequences. Apparently MGM wanted to keep these Technicolor scenes a secret, as the Technicolor credits do not appear until the end of the film, although it is advertised in the theatrical trailer (which can be seen on the Warner Bros. DVD release of the 1993 remake). Also note the beautiful score by Bronislau Kaper--especially the garden theme. Although this was certainly not a major entry in the annals of movie music, a suite from this score should be put together and recorded, taking advantage of the fact that Andre Previn, who conducted the soundtrack performance in 1949, is still working today. Few film moments touch me more than in the last shot when Craven, Colin, and Mary embrace in the garden as the music blares and the scene fades to the end titles. This film definately needs a restoration from original elements where they still exist. Especially the 3-strip Technicolor segments--although the colors are still rich and vibrant, they are not as sharp as they could be. With a proper restoration, hopefully we will see the 3-strip Technicolor scenes presented with the vibrance and clarity they deserve. This title is now unfortunately out of print on VHS. Copies of this film, even used, can be pricey both here and elsewhere. I acquired my copy of the tape at a second-hand video store a couple months ago, and in like-new condition. Best $5 investment I ever made! I am ever so pleased with it! If you come across it for a good price, GRAB IT!!! Here's to a restored DVD release, and soon!
The Secret GardenDecember 16, 2002
Linda Happer(Seattle, WA)
13 out of 13 found this review helpful
Margaret O'Brien does an absolutely fantastic job with this role, with Dean Stockwell and the other actors all running a close second! The full gamet of human emotions (fears, anger, selfishness, madness, wisdom, helpfulness,caring, control, etc.) has been written into this script. It is a story of discovering the truth about oneself. Mary, who everyone sees as selfish (and not without good reason) slowly turns into an "encourager". The young son who thinks he is a cripple and will not live to adulthood discovers he can be healed, and can live the life of a real boy. Mr. Cravens (the father) believes he is going mad when he cannot shake the black memories from the past---yet receives a sound mind as he sees the garden and his son restored to near perfection. Dicken, the country boy played by an unknown actor played a superb role of patience and compassion. This film was given five stars due not only to excellent acting, but directing, the background of the old castle, the garden, the gardner, the raven, the key, etc. It seems as if every touch was a "golden" touch to this 1947 version, and because of the character development of the children, certainly should be a part of every family's home video library!
My favorite film as a childOctober 12, 2004
Pat Shaw(Amherst, MA USA)
11 out of 11 found this review helpful
This is really not a review, but an experience I'd like to share. One year, while living in Los Angeles, a friend surprised me for my birthday by taking me to a "revival theater" to see this film. When the movie ended, the lights went up and someone announced that there was a special guest in the audience. That special guest was Margaret O'Brien, who was seated in the row directly behind me. What a thrill to see Miss O'Brien in person and to hear about her experiences as a child actress, in this film and in others. My friend had known about Miss O'Brien's "impending appearance," but didn't tell me. A birthday evening I will forever cherish. For 92 glorious minutes, I was that little 8-year-old once again...watching this film for the very first time. But this time, as I watched Margaret O'Brien on celluloid, she was seated just a whisper away.
Thank you for shopping at the Depot.com online shopping depot. ©2009