Develop a plan for you and your family for home, work, school and when outdoors.
Have frequent drills.
Know the county/parish in which you live, and keep a highway map nearby to follow storm movement from weather bulletins.
Have a with a warning alarm tone and battery back-up to receive warnings. NOAA Weather Radio
Listen to radio and television for information.
If planning a trip outdoors, listen to the latest forecasts and take necessary action if threatening weather is possible.
Top: James Campbell; Bottom: Gene Rhoden
If a Warning is issued or if threatening weather approaches:
In a home or building, move to a pre-designated shelter, such as a basement.
If an underground shelter is not available, move to an interior room or hallway on the lowest floor and get under a sturdy piece of furniture.
Stay away from windows.
Do not try to outrun a tornado in your car; instead, leave it immediately.
Mobile homes, even if tied down, offer little protection from tornadoes and should be abandoned.
Occasionally, tornadoes develop so rapidly that advance warning is not possible. Remain alert for signs of an approaching tornado. Flying debris from tornadoes causes most deaths and injuries.
It's Up To YOU!
Each year, many people are killed or seriously injured by tornadoes despite advance warning. Some did not hear the warning while others received the warning but did not believe a tornado would actually affect them. The preparedness information in this brochure, combined with timely severe weather watches and warnings, could save your life in the event a tornado threatens your area. After you have received the warning or observed threatening skies, YOU must make the decision to seek shelter before the storm arrives.It could be the most important decision you will ever make.
Who's Most At Risk?
The elderly, very young, and the physically or mentally impaired
People in mobile homes
People who may not understand the warning due to a language barrier
Tornado Safety in Schools
EVERY School Should Have A Plan!
Develop a severe weather action plan and have frequent drills,
Each school should be inspected and tornado shelter areas designated by a registered engineer or architect. Basements offer the best protection. Schools without basements should use interior rooms and hallways on the lowest floor and away from windows.
Those responsible for activating the plan should monitor weather information from NOAA Weather Radio and local radio/television.
If the school's alarm system relies on electricity, have a compressed air horn or megaphone to activate the alarm in case of power failure.
Make special provisions for disabled students and those in portable classrooms.
Make sure someone knows how to turn off electricity and gas in the event the school is damaged.
Keep children at school beyond regular hours if threatening weather is expected. Children are safer at school than in a bus or car. Students should not be sent home early if severe weather is approaching.
Lunches or assemblies in large rooms should be delayed if severe weather is anticipated. Gymnasiums, cafeterias, and auditoriums offer no protection from tornado-strength winds.
Move students quickly into interior rooms or hallways on the lowest floor. Have them assume the tornado protection position (shown at right).
Hospitals, nursing homes, and other institutions should develop a similar plan
Paul Bowen
Your National Weather Service, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and American Red Cross educate community officials and the public concerning the dangers posed by tornadoes. YOU can prepare for the possibility of a tornado by learning the safest places to seek shelter when at home, work, school, or outdoors. You should also understand basic weather terms and danger signs related to tornadoes. Your chances of staying safe during a tornado are greater if you have a plan for you and your family, and practice the plan frequently.
FAMILY DISASTER PLAN
Families should be prepared for all hazards that affect their area. NOAA's National Weather Service, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the American Red Cross urge each family to develop a family disaster plan.
Where will your family be when disaster strikes? They could be anywhere - at work, at school, or in the car. How will you find each other? Will you know if your children are safe? Disasters may force you to evacuate your neighborhood or confine you to your home. What would you do if basic services - water, gas, electricity or telephones - were cut off?
Follow these basic steps to develop a family disaster plan...
Contact your local National Weather Service office, emergency management or civil defense office, and American Red Cross chapter. Find out what type of disasters could occur and how you should respond. Learn your community's warning signals and evacuation plans.I.Gather information about hazards.
Discuss the information you have gathered. Pick two places to meet: a spot outside your home for an emergency, such as fire, and a place away from your neighborhood in case you can't return home. Choose an out-of-state friend as your "family check-in contact" for everyone to call if the family gets separated. Discuss what you would do if advised to evacuate.II.Meet with your family to create a plan.
(1) Post emergency telephone numbers by phones; (2) Install safety features in your house, such as smoke detectors and fire extinguishers; (3) Inspect your home for potential hazards (such as items that can move, fall, break, or catch fire) and correct them; (4) Have your family learn basic safety measures, such as CPR and first aid; how to use a fire extinguisher; and how and when to turn off water, gas, and electricity in your home; (5) Teach children how and when to call 911 or your local Emergency Medical Services number; (6) Keep enough supplies in your home to meet your needs for at least three days. Assemble a disaster supplies kit with items you may need in case of an evacuation. Store these supplies in sturdy, easy-to-carry containers, such as backpacks or duffle bags. Keep important family documents in a waterproof container. Keep a smaller disaster supplies kit in the trunk of your car.III.Implement your plan
A 3-day supply of water (one gallon per person per day) and food that won't spoil one change of clothing and footwear per person one blanket or sleeping bag per person a first-aid kit, including prescription medicines emergency tools, including a battery-powered NOAA Weather Radio and a portable radio, flashlight, and plenty of extra batteries an extra set of car keys and a credit card or cash special items for infant, elderly, or disabled family members.A DISASTER SUPPLIES KIT SHOULD INCLUDE:
. Ask questions to make sure your family remembers meeting places, phone numbers, and safety rules. Conduct drills. Test your smoke detectors monthly and change the batteries at least once a year. Test and recharge your fire extinguisher(s) according to manufacturer's instructions. Replace stored water and food every six months.IV.Practice and maintain your plan
LOCAL SPONSORSHIP: NOAA/PA 92052 ARC 5002