[] edit Early years
ESPN was originally thought up by Bill Rasmussen, a television reporter for , the affiliate in . In the mid-1970s, Rasmussen worked for the 's , selling commercial time for their broadcasts. His son Scott, a former high school goaltender, was the team's . Both were fired in 1977 and Rasmussen sought a new business venture. His original idea was a network (then a fairly new medium) that focused on covering sports events in the state of (for example, the , Bristol Red Sox, and the ). When Rasmussen was told that buying a continuous 24-hour satellite feed was less expensive than buying several blocks of only a few hours a night, he expanded to a 24-hour nationwide network. The channel's original name was ESP, for Entertainment and Sports Programming, but it was changed prior to launch. sports WWLP NBC Springfield, Massachusetts World Hockey Association New England Whalers public-address announcer cable television Connecticut Hartford Whalers Connecticut Huskies [1]
ESPN started with the debut of hosted by and on September 7, 1979. Afterwards was a pro slow pitch softball game. The first score on was from women's . SportsCenter Lee Leonard George Grande SportsCenter tennis
To help fill 24 hours a day of air time, ESPN aired a wide variety of sports events that broadcast networks did not show on weekends, including , , , , and additional and games. The U.S. Olympic Festival, the now-defunct competition that was organized as a training tool by the , was also an ESPN staple during this time. Australian Rules Football Davis Cup tennis professional wrestling boxing college football basketball United States Olympic Committee
[] edit Professional sports arrive
ESPN (along with the ) was among the earliest cable-based broadcast partners for the (NBA). Lasting from 198284, the network's relationship with the association marked its initial foray into the American professional sports sector. After an eighteen-year hiatus, ESPN (by then, under the auspices of the network), secured a $2.4 billion/six-year broadcast contract with the NBA, thereby revitalizing its historic compact with U.S. . USA Network National Basketball Association ABC professional basketball
In 1983, The (USFL) made its debut on ESPN and ABC. The league (which lasted for three seasons) enjoyed ephemeral success, some portion of which was a byproduct of the exposure afforded through ESPN's coverage. United States Football League
In , ESPN gained partial rights to the . The league agreed to the deal as long as ESPN agreed to the games on local in the participating . would last for 19 years and spur ESPN's rise to legitimacy. In the 2006 NFL season, ESPN began airing , formerly seen on its sister network ABC. ( took over the Sunday night game, which replaced the Monday night contest as the league's weekly centerpiece game.) 1987 National Football League simulcast television stations markets ESPN Sunday Night Football Monday Night Football NBC
In 1990, ESPN added to its lineup with a $400 million contract.; the contract has been renewed and will continue through at least 2011. and are the longtime voices of the network's centerpiece . Major League Baseball [2] Jon Miller Joe Morgan Sunday Night Baseball
ESPN broadcast each of the four in North America from 2002 until 2004, when it cut ties with the ; the network had aired NHL games from 1983-86 and again since 1993. major professional sports leagues National Hockey League [3]
ESPN has been broadcasting games about once a week on ESPN2 since that league's inception in 1996. In most years, the annual and championship game, and in some years the Opening Night game, are shown on ABC broadcast stations. Major League Soccer All-Star Game MLS Cup
ESPN broadcasts 65 sports, 24 hours a day in 15 languages in more than 150 countries. [4]
[] edit Expansion
The 1990s and early 2000s saw considerable growth within the company. In 1993, was founded, with and launching the network with SportsNite. , was born, with as the first . In 1997, ESPN purchased Classic Sports Network and renamed it . The latest ESPN network in the U.S., , began on March 4, 2005. ESPN2 Keith Olbermann Suzy Kolber Three years later ESPNEWS Mike Tirico anchor ESPN Classic ESPNU
began in the early 1990s to take advantage of the growing satellite markets in , , and . In , ESPN, Inc. purchased a minority share of and (in fact, the current corporate logo of both looks similar to that of ESPN). In 2004, ESPN finally entered the market by launching a version of , and in December 2006, it agreed to purchase . s primary three broadcasts each day are at 1 a.m. (which re-airs usually until 9 AM ), 6 p.m. , and 11 p.m. . ESPN International Asia Africa Latin America Canada TSN RDS European ESPN Classic North American Sports Network SportsCenter' ET ET ET ET
In 1994, ESPN set the standard for understanding the role of sports in America with the creation of by Dr. . The Sports Poll was the first ongoing national daily study of sports fan activities and interests in the United States. acknowledged the accomplishments of The ESPN Sports Poll and Dr. Luker in 1996. The ESPN Sports Poll Richard Luker Sporting News [5]
With the increasing costs of live sports entertainment, such as the U.S.$8.8 billion costs for NFL football broadcasts rights for eight years, "scripted entertainment has become a luxury item for ESPN," said David Carter, director of the Sports Business Institute at the University of Southern California. [6]
From 1996 onward, ESPN was closely integrated with ABC Sports. That year, , president of ESPN since 1990, was made president of ABC Sports as well. This integration culminated in the 2006 decision to merge ABC Sports' operations with ESPN. As a result, all of ABC's sports programming now uses . However, ABC Sports is still legally separate from ESPN (see below). Steve Bornstein ESPN on ABC
ESPN is currently building a full-fledged broadcast production facility in downtown Los Angeles, as a part of the complex across from the . The five-story facility will house an ESPN Zone restaurant on the first two floors and two television production studios with digital control rooms on upper floors. It is scheduled to open in spring 2009. One of the studios will host late-night editions of . L.A. Live Staples Center SportsCenter [7]
In 2007, ESPN signed an agreement with the to broadcast at least one game every weekend, usually on Monday nights. Arena Football League
As of January 15, 2008, ESPN has signed a multi-million dollar contract with professional gaming circuit or MLG for short. Although some have argued that professional gaming is not a physical sport, ESPN has gone ahead with this collaboration. Major League Gaming