 >  >  >  > Gynecologic Oncology Home Clinical Services Centers of Excellence Montefiore-Einstein Cancer Cen...
Gynecologic Oncology
The Division of Gynecologic Oncology at the Montefiore-Einstein Cancer Center is a first-rate, full-service department devoted to preventing, diagnosing and treating gynecologic cancers.
In the next year, approximately 80,000 women in the U.S. will be diagnosed with some type of gynecologic cancer. As with many cancers, screening and early detection are key factors and timely treatment can mean an excellent prognosis.
Expertise improves outcomes
At Montefiore, we have the expertise and focused experience to treat all types of gynecologic cancers, including cervical, endometrial, ovarian, uterine, vulva and vaginal. We specialize in diagnosing and treating cervical cancer and have an active research program.
Studies suggest a higher rate of success when gynecologic cancers are treated by specialists in that field. Our staff includes five full-time, board-certified or board-eligible gynecologic oncologists, as well as specially trained clinicians, oncology nurses and support staff. Montefiore has one of only a few fellowship training programs in the nation in gynecologic oncology.
Our  gives patients the benefit of our vast experience and skilled professionals. Each patient is assigned an oncology nurse who serves as her key contact — from diagnosis and treatment to coordinating , pain management, physical therapy and other necessary support. We offer our patients all these services under one roof. all-inclusive approach to care social services
Superior screening, diagnosis & treatment
Our Department offers outstanding resources in diagnosis and screening for all types of gynecologic cancer. We excel at all aspects of diagnostic intervention and are constantly conducting research to further improve the field.
Particularly notable are our advanced capabilities for screening and management of ovarian cancer. We offer a full genetic and clinical screening program that includes . Those at risk are candidates for preventive surgery or other interventions. genetic counseling and testing
Upon diagnosis, Montefiore provides the  available, including surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. As a National Cancer Institute–designated cancer center, we offer state-of-the-art chemotherapy in our infusion units. latest cancer treatments
Research that benefits patients
Montefiore is a member of the prestigious Gynecology Oncology Group, a non-profit organization that promotes excellence in gynecologic oncology research and therapy. Our ongoing commitment to research is an outstanding benefit to our patients, who are often involved in therapeutic or investigational protocols run through the National Cancer Institute and the National Institute of Health.
Montefiore has been actively involved in a trial for the human papillomavirus (HPV), a sexually transmitted disease that has been associated with the development of cervical cancer. Our efforts are focused on patients with pre-malignant conditions of the cervix, offering them a vaccine against the virus. The second phase of our trial will include both treatment and prevention initiatives.
Montefiore has long been a leading force in battling cervical cancer. Our patients were among the first nationwide to receive new treatment therapies that include coordinated chemotherapy and radiation therapy and high-dose-rate brachytherapy (HDR). Patients with recurrent cervical cancer receive the latest advanced medical therapies, including Montefiore's nationally recognized . surgical approach
Gynecologic Cancer