Click to enlarge
Product Information 
Pro Lean SF is a stimulant free fat burner that can assist in the quest for a leaner appearance. Pro Lean SF contains a powerful blend of active natural ingredients that may support the optimal metabolic rate and energy levels necessary to achieve this goal. Pro Lean SF may also control cravings and encourage a regular eating pattern.  
Nutritional InformationContains: Salvia Slarea Extract is a fermented clary sage compound and has been shown to help the body move fat out of the fat cells and use them for energy, increasing fat burning. Inzitol is a purified form of D-Pinitol, a natural inositol found in legumes, trees, and foods. Studies show that Inzitol assists uptake and utilisation of glucose to the muscle cells. Cayenne Pepper (also called Capsicum frutescens) is a herb made from the dried pods of chili peppers. Increases AMP, which causes a rise in body temperature leading to the breakdown of body fat. Cnidium Monnier Extract Gugglesterones E & Z are derived from the herb Commiphora mukul. This herb is known for increasing thyroid production leading to greater amount of fat to be used as energy. Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) Niacin (vitamin B3) Thiamin (vitamin B1) Pantothenic acid (vitamin B5) B vitamins help the body to convert carbohydrates and fats into useable energy. Other ingredients (filler and binders) Magnesium stearate, Di calcium phosphate Additional Product Information: Capsule per container: 90 Serving size: 2 capsules supplying 570mg proprietary thermogenic Pro Lean SF blend. Take twice a day after meals. Servings per container: 45 (22.5 day supply). To avoid stomach upsets consume with food (some herbs on an empty stomach can cause discomfort). Suitable for: Vegetarians - No (due to gelatin capsules being derived from animal origin) Vegans - No (due to gelatin capsules being derived from animal origin) (Note for vegans & vegetarians contents of the capsules can be emptied and consumed with water). Gluten free diet - Yes Safe to use for both men and women. Safe to use for those subject to IOC drug testing. 
 
Two capsules to be taken twice daily after food.
Available Options: