 
STATE HISTORICAL SITE
Welcome to the Gordon Beach Inn, a casually active, rustic, and historic 1920's Inn. A nationally known hotel, the Gordon Beach Inn is 's rustic, no-nonsense sister lodging destination, with 20 guest rooms, on site, and a private beach three blocks from the Inn. Lakeside Inn Timothy's Restaurant
A historic Inn built in the 1920's, and we are now recognized on the State of Michigan  register as a State Historical site.  I was renovated with great care and consideration in 1992. Artisans were brought in to hand stencil walls and corridors with designs based on botanical themes and local Native American patterns, which lend a warm and distinctive atmosphere to the Inn.
We have twenty rooms, each updated with private bath, telephone, cable TV, heat and air conditioning. We offer three rooms with Jacuzzi tub, wet bar, and refrigerator.
Summer Rates Increase on weekends and for the following dates and all  holidays $25 per night. Two night minimum on weekends in  July and August and all Holidays; Memorial Day, 4th of July,  Labor Day and Apple Cider Century weekend September 29, 30, October 1, 2007
If you would like more information about or would like to make reservations, please email us at , , or call us atGordon Beach Inn
reservationsgb(at)gordonbeachinn(dot).com book online with Webervations
(269) 469 - 0800.
Guests: Due to the overwhelming popularity of Timothy's Restaurant, we no longer can guarantee any common areas for guests to use, as our lobby is a shared restaurant lounge.  If any of these are inconveniences to you, please visit our sister Inn, the , at .Lakeside Inn www.lakesideinns.com
NOTICE:The Gordon Beach Inn has several policies and additional charges for some services or items that are offered to guests. When making your reservation, please inquire about additional services or items so that we may review our policies and apply any appropriate charges. When sending email, please include that you are requesting information for the Gordon Beach Inn. Thank you.Rates are subject to change without notice.
Check In:3:00 PM Eastern Time
11:00 AM Eastern TimeCheck Out:
Children Welcome
Visa, MasterCard and Discover Card; Checks and Cash gladly accepted
Handicapped Accessible
Free Wireless High-Speed Internet Access
20 Rooms