It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article . Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and removed.does not any cite references or sources improve this article reliable sources Unverifiable
(October 2008)
"" is a classic written in 1951 by . The song was originally titled "". The song has been recorded by many artists, but was a hit by and with & His Orchestra on , and released on as 47-4314 (45 rpm) and 20-4314 (78 rpm). recorded a version on , which was also widely played.It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas Christmas song Meredith Willson It's Beginning to Look Like Christmas Perry Como The Fontane Sisters Mitchell Ayres September 10 1951 RCA Victor Bing Crosby October 1 1951
A popular but unproven belief in holds that Willson wrote the song while staying in Yarmouth's Grand Hotel. The song makes reference to a "tree in the Grand Hotel, one in the park as well..."; the park being Frost Park, directly across the road from the Grand Hotel which still operates in Yarmouth. However was a popular name used by many hotels in numerous towns and cities. Yarmouth, Nova Scotia [1] Grand Hotel
"It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas" was later incorporated into the pre-Broadway version of the score of Willson's 1963 musical and can be heard on that show's original cast recording, where it is sung in counterpoint to a new melody and lyric, "Pinecones and Holly Berries." Here's Love
In 1986, recorded "It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas" for his album ; this version gained popularity after its inclusion in the 1992 film . Gradually, Mathis' recording began to receive wide airplay, and for the past several years this version has been a Christmas hit. Johnny Mathis Christmas Eve with Johnny Mathis Home Alone 2: Lost in New York radio Top 10
"It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas" is featured in the DVD version of which is part of the franchise.Very Merry Christmas Songs Disney Sing Along Songs
It is now is the song played on Christmas . ASDA adverts