Micronutrient Information Center
Iron
Iron has the longest and best described history among all the micronutrients. It is a key element in the metabolism of almost all living organisms. In humans, iron is an essential component of hundreds of proteins and . enzymes (1, 2)
Function
Oxygen transport and storage
is an iron-containing compound found in a number of biologically important molecules. Hemoglobin and myoglobin are heme-containing proteins that are involved in the transport and storage of oxygen. Hemoglobin is the primary protein found in red blood cells and represents about two thirds of the body's iron. The vital role of hemoglobin in transporting oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body is derived from its unique ability to acquire oxygen rapidly during the short time it spends in contact with the lungs and to release oxygen as needed during its circulation through the tissues. Myoglobin functions in the transport and short-term storage of oxygen in muscle cells, helping to match the supply of oxygen to the demand of working muscles . Heme (3, 4)
Electron transport and energy metabolism 
Cytochromes are heme-containing compounds that are critical to cellular energy production and therefore, life, through their roles in . They serve as electron carriers during the synthesis of , the primary energy-storage compound in cells. Cytochrome P450 is a family of enzymes that functions in the metabolism of a number of important biological molecules, as well as the detoxification and metabolism of drugs and pollutants. Nonheme iron-containing enzymes, such as NADH dehydrogenase and succinate dehydrogenase, are also critical to energy metabolism .  mitochondrial electron transport ATP (3)
Antioxidant and beneficial pro-oxidant functions 
Catalase and peroxidases are heme-containing that protect cells against the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide, a potentially damaging (ROS), by catalyzing a reaction that converts hydrogen peroxide to to water and oxygen. As part of the immune response, some white blood cells engulf bacteria and expose them to ROS in order to kill them. The synthesis of one such ROS, hypochlorous acid, by is catalyzed by the heme-containing enzyme myeloperoxidase . enzymes reactive oxygen species neutrophils (3, 4)
Oxygen sensing
Inadequate oxygen (hypoxia), such as that experienced by those who live at high altitudes or those with chronic lung disease, induces compensatory physiologic responses, including increased red blood cell formation, increased blood vessel growth (angiogenesis) and increased production of enzymes utilized in metabolism. Under hypoxic conditions , known as hypoxia inducible factors (HIF), bind to in that encode various proteins involved in compensatory responses to hypoxia and increase their synthesis. Recent research indicates that an iron-dependent prolyl hydroxylase enzyme plays a critical role in regulating HIF and consequently, physiologic responses to hypoxia. When cellular oxygen tension is adequate, newly synthesized HIFa subunits are modified by a prolyl hydroxylase enzyme in an iron-dependent process that targets HIFa for rapid degradation. When cellular oxygen tension drops below a critical threshold, prolyl hydroxylase can no longer target HIFa for degradation, allowing HIFa to bind to HIFb and form an active transcription factor that is able to enter the nucleus and bind to specific response elements on genes .  anaerobic transcription factors response elements genes (5, 6)
DNA synthesis
Ribonucleotide reductase is an iron-dependent enzyme that is required for synthesis . Thus, iron is required for a number of vital functions, including growth, reproduction, healing, and immune function. DNA (1, 2)
Regulation of intracellular iron
Iron are short sequences of found in the messenger (mRNA) that codes for key proteins in the regulation of iron storage and metabolism. Iron regulatory proteins (IRP) can bind to iron response elements and affect mRNA , thereby regulating the of specific proteins. It has been proposed that when the iron supply is high, more iron binds to IRPs and prevents them from binding to iron response elements on mRNA. When the iron supply is low, less iron binds to IRPs, allowing increased binding of iron response elements. Thus, when less iron is available, translation of mRNA that codes for the iron storage protein, ferritin, is reduced because iron is not available for storage. Translation of mRNA that codes for the key regulatory enzyme of heme synthesis in immature red blood cells is also reduced to conserve iron. In contrast, IRP binding to iron response elements in mRNA that codes for transferrin receptors inhibits mRNA degradation, resulting in increased synthesis of transferrin receptors and increased iron transport to cells . response elements nucleotides RNA translation synthesis (4)
Nutrient interactions
Vitamin A
Vitamin A deficiency may exacerbate iron deficiency . Vitamin A supplementation has been shown to have beneficial effects on iron deficiency anemia and improve iron status among children and pregnant women. The combination of vitamin A and iron seems to ameliorate anemia more effectively than either iron or vitamin A alone .  anemia (7, 8)
Copper
Adequate copper nutritional status appears to be necessary for normal iron metabolism and red blood cell formation. Anemia is a clinical sign of copper deficiency. Animal studies demonstrate a role for copper in iron absorption , and iron has been found to accumulate in the livers of copper deficient animals, indicating that copper is required for iron transport to the bone marrow for red blood cell formation .  (9) (10)
Zinc
High doses of iron supplements taken together with zinc supplements on an empty stomach can inhibit the absorption of zinc. When taken with food, supplemental iron does not appear to inhibit zinc absorption. Iron-fortified foods have no effect on zinc absorption . (7, 11)
Calcium
When consumed together in a single meal, calcium has been found to decrease the absorption of iron. However, little effect has been observed on ferritin levels (iron stores) with calcium supplement levels ranging from 1,000 to 1,500 mg/day . serum (7, 11)
Deficiency
Iron deficiency is the most common nutrient deficiency in the U.S. and the world. Three levels of iron deficiency are generally identified and are listed below from least to most severe : (3)
Storage iron depletion
Iron stores are depleted, but the functional iron supply is not limited. 
Early functional iron deficiency
The supply of functional iron is low enough to impair red blood cell formation, but not low enough to cause measurable .  anemia
Iron deficiency anemia
There is inadequate iron to support normal red blood cell formation, resulting in anemia. The anemia of iron deficiency is characterized as microcytic and hypochromic, meaning red blood cells are measurably smaller than normal and their hemoglobin content is decreased. At this stage of iron deficiency, symptoms may be a result of inadequate oxygen delivery due to anemia and/or sub-optimal function of iron-dependent enzymes. It is important to remember that iron deficiency is not the only cause of anemia, and that the diagnosis or treatment of iron deficiency solely on the basis of anemia may lead to misdiagnosis or inappropriate treatment of the underlying cause . See and for information on other nutritional causes of anemia. (12) Folic acid Vitamin B12
Symptoms of iron deficiency
Most of the symptoms of iron deficiency are a result of the associated , and may include fatigue, rapid heart rate, palpitations, and rapid breathing on exertion. Iron deficiency impairs athletic performance and physical work capacity in several ways. In iron deficiency anemia, the reduced content of red blood cells results in decreased oxygen delivery to active tissues. Decreased myoglobin levels in muscle cells limit the amount of oxygen that can be delivered to for oxidative metabolism. Iron depletion also decreases the oxidative capacity of muscle by diminishing the mitochondrial content of cytochromes and other iron-dependent enzymes required for and synthesis. Lactic acid production is also increased in iron deficiency . The ability to maintain a normal body temperature on exposure to cold is also impaired in iron-deficient individuals. Severe iron deficiency anemia may result in brittle and spoon-shaped nails, sores at the corners of the mouth, taste bud atrophy, and a sore tongue. In some cases, advanced iron-deficiency anemia may cause difficulty in swallowing due to the formation of webs of tissue in the throat and esophagus. The development of esophageal webs, also known as Plummer-Vinson syndrome, may require a genetic predisposition in addition to iron deficiency. Pica, a behavioral disturbance characterized by the consumption of non-food items, may be a symptom and a cause of iron deficiency . anemia hemoglobin mitochondria electron transport ATP (13) (12)
Individuals at increased risk of iron deficiency
Infants and children between the ages of 6 months and 4 years
A full-term infant's iron stores are usually sufficient to last for 6 months. High iron requirements are due to the rapid growth rates sustained during this period . (4)
Adolescents
Early adolescence is another period of rapid growth. In females, the blood loss that occurs with menstruation adds to the increased iron requirement of adolescence . (4)
Pregnant women
Increased iron utilization by the developing fetus and placenta, as well as blood volume expansion significantly, increase the iron requirement during pregnancy . (4)
Individuals with chronic blood loss
Chronic bleeding or acute blood loss may result in iron deficiency. One milliliter (ml) of blood with a hemoglobin concentration of 150 grams/liter contains 0.5 mg of iron. Thus, chronic loss of very small amounts of blood may result in iron deficiency. A common cause of chronic blood loss and iron deficiency in developing countries is intestinal parasitic infection. Individuals who donate blood frequently, especially menstruating women, may need to increase their iron intake to prevent deficiency because each 500 ml of blood donated contains between 200 and 250 mg of iron .  (1)
Individuals with celiac disease
Celiac disease (celiac sprue) is an autoimmune disorder estimated to occur in 1% of the population. When people with celiac disease consume foods or products that contain gluten, the immune system response damages the intestinal villi, which may result in nutrient malabsorption and iron deficiency anemia . (40)
Individuals with helicobacter pylori infection
infection is associated with iron deficiency anemia, especially in children, even in the absence of gastrointestinal bleeding .H. pylori (14)
Individuals who have had gastric bypass surgery
Some types of gastric bypass (bariatric) surgery increase the risk of iron deficiency by causing malabsorption of iron among other nutrients . (41)
Vegetarians
Because iron from plant sources is less efficiently absorbed than that from animal sources, the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) has estimated that the of iron from a vegetarian diet is only 10%, while it is 18% from a mixed diet. Therefore, the recommended dietary allowance () for iron from a completely vegetarian diet should be adjusted as follows: 14 mg/day for adult men and postmenopausal women, 33 mg/day for premenopausal women, and 26 mg/day for adolescent girls . bioavailability RDA (11)
Individuals who engage in regular intense exercise
Daily iron losses have been found to be greater in athletes involved in intense endurance training. This may be due to increased microscopic bleeding from the tract or increased fragility and of red blood cells. The FNB estimates that the average requirement for iron may be 30% higher for those who engage in regular intense exercise . gastrointestinal hemolysis (11)
The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA)
The for iron was revised in 2001 and is based on the prevention of iron deficiency and maintenance of adequate iron stores in individuals eating a mixed diet . RDA (11)
Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for Iron
Life Stage