 Clothes Moths
Webbing Clothes Moth
With the decreased use of preventive pesticides, the incidence of museum items damaged by the Webbing Clothes moth has increased significantly in recent years. Items primarily affected include woolens, anything containing feathers, animal mounts and skeletons. Woolen items injured by clothes moths have holes eaten through them by small, white larvae. You can often find hairs falling from animal specimens that the larvae are feeding upon. Materials left undisturbed for some time or stored in dark places (such as a closet, attic, or drawer) are most severely injured by these insects. The adults are small and champagne-colored. They can often be seen running over the surface of the infested goods when exposed to light or flying somewhat aimlessly about the houses or closets.
: Clothing moth larvae feed on wool, hair, feathers, furs, upholstered furniture, occasionally on dead insects, dry dead animals, animal and fish meals, milk powders such as casein, and nearly all animal products such as bristles, dried hair and leather. Adults do not eat.Food
: Adult moths lay 100-150 eggs. The larvae is the damaging stage. They are white and vary in size from 1/16" when first hatched up to 1/3" when full grown. The length of the larval period depends largely on the environmental conditions and the quality of food.Life Cycle
: This trap is placed on the floor, shelf or hanging indoors in closets and rooms where woolen, silk fabrics, furs, or items with feathers are stored. One trap per closet or storage room can attract and catch the male moths. This trap will act as an early warning tool to help prevent destruction of woolen items and other fabrics.Trap use and placement
 
 
CASE-MAKING CLOTHES MOTH
If you have clothes moths and it's not the Webbing Clothes Moth, chances are you have Case-making Clothes Moths. Materials left undisturbed for some time or stored in dark places (such as a closet, attic, or drawer) are most severely injured by these insects. The adults are slightly smaller than the Webbing Clothes Moth. Body and wings are colored buff to golden with a brownish tinge, except for three dark spots on the front wings. The eyes are wider than the space between them. The brown headed larvae will spin a silken case that it carries around with them as they feed.
: Clothing moth larvae feed on wool, hair, feathers, furs, upholstered furniture, occasionally on dead insects, dry dead animals, animal and fish meals, milk powders such as casein, and nearly all animal products such as bristles, dried hair and leather. Adults do not eat.Food
: 33 - 48 days, depending on environment. Adult moths lay 100-150 eggs. The larvae is the damaging stage. They are white with brown heads and vary in size from 1/4" when first hatched up to 1/3" when full grown. The length of the larval period depends largely on the environmental conditions and the quality of food.Life Cycle
: This trap is placed on the floor, shelf or hanging indoors in closets and rooms where woolen, silk fabrics, furs, or items with feathers are stored. One trap per closet or storage room can attract and catch the male moths. This trap will also act as an early warning tool to help prevent destruction of woolen items and other fabrics.Trap use and placement
Kits (Complete Trap and Lure Systems)  (Scroll down the page for lures and traps)
should be placed in areas that contain items the larva feed on, such as wool, hair, feathers, fur and upholstered furniture (Containing natural wool and leather). Basically any product containing natural fibers is susceptibleWebbing or Case Making clothes moth traps
Although there is no exact number of traps that you should use, here are some general guidelines: In small areas, we recommend three to four traps per 1000 square feet, but in larger areas such as warehouses and retail stores, place the traps every 25 - 50 feet apart on a grid pattern. This can be increased or decreased based on how intensely you want to monitor for these insects. The recommended height is eye level. 
PHEROMONE TRAPS THREE EASY STEPS
BULLET LINE INSTRUCTIONS
Warning: DO NOT Puncture or Take Cap Off of Bullet Lure!
The enclosed pheromone Bullet Lures have a semi-permeable fabric matrix in the aluminum cap attached to the plastic lure. The matrix allows the delayed release of the pheromone over an extended period of time. DO NOT puncture the lure or the cap. They become active as soon as they are removed from the foil pack. Once the Bullet Lure is removed from its foil pack, place it onto the glue towards the center of the trap.
Take care not to cover the cap with glue.
  These traps should be used in areas where insects are likely to be foundUSE AND PLACEMENT
The lure should be placed in the bottom of the trap as indicated on the Trap Assembly Instruction Sheet on the opposite side of the sheet. Care should be taken not to get glue on the metal end of the Bullet Lure.PLACING THE LURE
In order to ensure the highest efficiency, it is recommended that the lures be replaced every 60 days. The traps do not require changing unless they are either full of insects (and cannot catch any more) or are no longer sticky.REPLACEMENT
 
 Frequently Asked Questions
  Pheromones are natural compounds that are created in the body of an insect. Insects use pheromones to communicate with each other. We have isolated many of these compounds in the laboratory and use them to lure the insects into a sticky trap.How Do Pheromone traps work?
  Pheromone traps are meant to be used as part of integrated approach to pest control. Sanitation, inspection, and removal of infested material are all very important parts of an integrated approach.I am using the traps, but I still see insects. What else can I do?
  All lures should be good for at least two years if kept at room temperatures or below.How long will the lures last if kept unopened?
Stealth Shelf Traps or NoSurvivor Traps will be sent with your order. Manufacturers choice on the trap. Both traps work equally well.
The male is attracted to the female because a scent from the abdomen of the female. This scent also induces courtship behavior. An excellent pheromone trapping system for this destructive textile pest and available right here for your convenience.
Webbing Clothes Moth Trap
Case of 10 traps -$147.00
FREE SHIPPING