24
Women in the unsupplemented control group were recruited fromthe same study community but did not receive prenatal supplementsbecause they did not enter prenatal care until late in the thirdtrimester. Women in the control group were provided with dailyiron supplements (60 mg Fe and 250 µg folate) after theiron-absorption trial was completed (2 wk after they were recruitedinto the study). These women therefore received iron supplementationfor 4 wk before the delivery of their infants.
The study was approved by the Committee for Human Research atthe Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and bythe Ethical Committee at the Instituto de InvestigaciónNutricional, Lima, Peru. Written informed consent was obtainedfrom each woman before the start of the study. Data on maternaliron and zinc absorption in these women during the third trimesterof pregnancy were previously reported (, ). 25 26
Iron isotopes of Russian origin were purchased as the metal(Fe at 94.67% enrichment and Fe at 93.13% enrichment). Theoral Fe tracer was converted into ferrous sulfate accordingto the procedure of Kastenmayer et al (), except that no ascorbicacid was added during tracer preparation to avoid the influenceof this vitamin on iron absorption. The intravenous Fe isotopewas converted from the metal into a sterile and pyrogen-freesolution of ferrous citrate by Merck Frosst Canada Inc (Quebec).The isotopic composition of the final tracer solutions was validatedby using magnetic sector thermal ionization mass spectrometry(MAT 261; Finnigan, Bremen, Germany).Isotope preparation
575857 27 58
On the day the isotopes were administered, fasted (for 1.5h) pregnant women came to the Cesar Lopez Silva hospital, abaseline venous blood sample (10 mL) was taken, and an intravenousFe tracer (0.6 mg as ferrous citrate) was infused over a 10-mininterval. On this day each woman also consumed 10 mg Fe (asferrous sulfate) in 60–90 mL of a non–ascorbic acid–containingflavored drink. Women in the Fe and Fe+Zn groups also consumedtheir regular prenatal supplement at this time. The prenatalsupplement ingested on this day was identical to the supplementnormally consumed except that the total iron content was reducedby 10 mg to keep the total dose of supplement and tracer constantat 60 mg Fe. Women remained fasting for 1.5 h after dosing.Two weeks after dosing, a 5-mL blood sample was obtained foranalyses of iron isotopes and determination of maternal ironabsorption and red blood cell iron incorporation. Details ofthis study were previously reported ().Study design and isotope dosing
5857 25
When the women went into labor, a fieldworker accompanied themto the hospital. At delivery, samples of venous cord blood (5mL, reflecting the isotopic enrichment of the baby and placentalunit) were obtained and heel stick samples of blood (200 µL)were collected from each neonate. Although the expected enrichmentof oral and intravenous iron tracer should be identical betweenthe cord and heel stick samples, data from both were collectedto confirm this relation and to provide us with sufficient samplevolume to analyze all iron-status indicators in the neonates.
Whole blood from neonatal cord (1 mL) and heel stick (200 µL)blood samples was digested with 15 mL nitric acid in a 25-mLErlenmeyer flask by heating overnight on a hot plate. Aftereach digest was clear, it was transferred to a beaker and evaporatedto dryness. The digested residue was reconstituted in 2–4mL of 6 N hydrochloric acid and was covered and heated slightlyuntil the residue went into solution. Samples were cooled beforethe chromatography process.Isolation of iron from samples
Iron was extracted from the digested whole blood by using ananion exchange chromatography method and was reconstituted in10–30 µL of 3% nitric acid (). All acids usedwere ultrapure (Ultrex; JT Baker, Phillipsburg, NJ) 28
Extracted blood samples (10 µL) were processed as previouslyreported (), and isotope ratios were measured by using magneticsector thermal ionization mass spectrometry (Finnigan). Typicalrelative SDs and precision with the use of this technique are0.5% or better. Maternal iron absorption was measured by measuringthe fraction of the oral Fe dose incorporated into red bloodcells after adjustment for the fraction of intravenous Feincorporated into red blood cells over the same interval. Inbrief, the amount of Fe that was absorbed from the oral dosewas determined asMass spectrometry
(1)
where RBCs is red blood cells.
Detailed calculations for determination of iron absorption andred blood cell iron incorporation in these women were reportedpreviously (). 25
The degree to which the iron isotope ratios in cord or heelstick blood were increased over the natural abundance ratiosat baseline was determined asCalculation of tracer enrichment in the fetus
(2)
The same equation was used for the Fe change in percentexcess, substituting the Fe baseline and observed ratiosinto the equation. The natural abundance ratios of the Feand Fe tracers used were 0.02326 and 0.00311, respectively.58/5658/5657/5658/56
The total circulating iron pool in the neonates was determinedby assuming a neonatal blood volume of 80 mL/kg (, ) andthe iron content of hemoglobin (3.47 g/mL) with the followingequation (, ):Calculation of iron transfer to the fetus
30 31 28 32
(3)
The total amount of naturally occurring Fe and Fe in theneonates’ blood was determined by multiplying the totalcirculating iron pool by the natural abundance level for eachof the Fe and Fe tracers administered (0.0214 and 0.00287,respectively). The total milligram quantities of oral iron tracertransferred to the neonates’ circulation were calculatedas58575758
(4)
The same equation was used to estimate the total quantity ofthe intravenously administered maternal Fe transferred tothe neonatal circulation by substituting the change in percentexcess of Fe and the estimated naturally occurring Fe inthe neonate.585858
The net daily transfer of isotope to the fetus was determinedby dividing the total quantity of tracer transferred (mg) tothe fetus by the number of days that had elapsed between maternaldosing and parturition. The percentage of iron transferred tothe fetus in relation to the net amount of iron tracer absorbedby the mother was then calculated as
(5)
Total iron was measured in cord blood samples by using a colorimetricprocedure. Hemoglobin was analyzed by using the cyanomethemoglobinmethod, and packed cell volume was analyzed by using the microhematocritmethod. Serum ferritin was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbentassay with human antiferritin and antiferritin peroxidase antibodiespurchased from DAKO (Santa Barbara, CA). Serum transferrin receptorswere measured with a commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbentassay (Quantikine R&D Systems, Minneapolis). Serum folateand vitamin B-12 were measured in the same sample by radioimmunoassay(Diagnostic Products Corporation, Los Angeles).Iron-status indicators in cord blood
Analysis of variance was used to detect significant differencesin measured variables among supplementation groups. Scheffe’stest was used for post hoc comparisons. All data are expressedas means ± SDs. Linear regression analysis was used toexamine the relations between iron-status indicators and enrichmentof the tracers in cord blood. For statistical purposes, ferritinvalues were transformed by using a natural logarithm. Data arepresented as the nontransformed values for interpretation purposes.Stepwise regression was used to examine the relations betweenmaternal and neonatal iron-status variables and enrichment oforal and intravenous tracer in the neonates at birth. Statisticalanalyses were completed by using the STATVIEW 5.0.1 softwareprogram (SAS Institute Inc, Cary, NC). All differences wereconsidered significant at < 0.05.Statistical analyses
P