Fitness workouts for everyBODY
Balletone: Sole Synthesis(Training 6hr / Intensive 4hr / Intro Workshop 2hr)
Sole Synthesis is the perfect starting place for Balletone; an intensive or instructor training designed to showcase the Balletone Blueprint for success and highlight the fitness, dance/pilates and yoga pathways available.  Sole Synthesis is also a fabulous stand alone fusion class that seamlessly blends creative movement sequences with mindful instruction for an incredible workout.
This workshop will focus on how to combine various disciplines seamlessly within one class setting using the fundamental teaching techniques and primary concepts of Balletone.  A basic overview of each of discipline’s uniqueness and theory will be reviewed and discussed along with how they can relate and compliment one another (Balletone, Yoga and Fitness).  Objectives will be introduced with a theoretical approach and reinforced through practical application.  Skills and drills will allow the attendees to develop an understanding of how the educational elements of Balletone can be utilized to enhance group or one-on-one instruction regardless of the population or discipline being used.  This workshop is designed for group exercise, Pilates and Yoga instructors, and possibly personal trainers.  
No Equipment Necessary!(Training 6hr / Intensive 4hr / Intro Workshop 2hr)
Based on the popular “Zone Workout Series”, available On Command in hotel rooms worldwide…the idea is to maximize your workouts and minimize the equipment!  If you desire full body workouts that are unique and effective without any clean up--- this program is for you.  Dig a little deeper and think outside the “toy box”… expand your repertoire by going back to the basics and learning movement patterns based on one of the Balletone® program’s key concepts – F.L.O.W. ™.  F.L.O.W., combined with analyzing movement patterns, the way your muscles interact and how you can effectively use movement sequences, repetitions, and plyometric work to target even muscles you forgot you had is the recipe!  It's a direct way to increase and strengthen your major muscle groups simply by using a shift in focus with your own body weight … and things you just happen to find around the gym as resistance. Use what you’ve got and take your workouts beyond what you ever dreamed possible…no clean up required!