The reference article from the on 24-Jul-2004Marsilio Ficino English Wikipedia
(provided by : snapshots of Wikipedia from wikipedia.org) Fixed Reference
(also known by his Latin name, ( - ) was one of the most influential of the early Italian , a reviver of who was in touch with every major academic thinker and writer of his day.
Marsilio Ficino
Time you got around to sponsoring a child Marsilio FicinoMarsilius Ficinus 1433 1499 humanist philosophers Renaissance Neoplatonism
During the sessions at Florence of the in 1439, during the failed attempts to heal the schism of the Latin and Greek churches, Cosimo and his intellectual circle had made acquaintance with the philosopher Gemistos Plethon, whose discourses upon Plato and the Alexandrian mystics so fascinated the learned society of Florence that they named him the second Plato. In 1459 John Argyropoulos was lecturing on Greek language and literature at Florence, and Marsilio became his pupil. When Cosimo decided to refound Plato's at Florence, his choice to head it was Marsilio, who made the classic translation of from to (published in 1482), as well as of the , and the writings of many of the Neoplatonists, for example , , . Following suggestions laid out by Gemistos Plethon, Ficino tried to and . Council of Siena Neoplatonic Academy Plato Greek Latin Hermetic Corpus Porphyry Plotinus et al synthesize Christanity Platonism
Marsilio Ficino's main work was his treatise on the immortality of the soul (). In the rush of enthusiasm for every rediscovery from Antiquity, Marsilio exhibited a great interest in the arts of , which landed him in trouble with the Roman Church. In 1489 he was accused of magic before and needed strong defense to preserve him from the rigors of heresy.Theologia Platonica de immortalitate animae astrology Pope Innocent VIII
His father was a physician connected to patron was , who took the young man into his household and became the lifelong patron of Marsilio, who was made tutor to his grandson, . , the Italian humanist philosopher and scholar, was another of his students. Cosimo de' Medici Lorenzo de' Medici Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
His letters, extending over the years 1474 - 1494, survive and have been published. He also authored a book titled . De amore