As South America's most popular beach resort area, the Marvellous City offers a wide selection of lodging, most in close proximity to its fabulous attractions and night life hot spots. Some of the hotels were built in the 60's and 70's, with older layouts and designs, while others are elegant, 5-star resorts in the heart of Rio's thriving activity. Copacabana is the best-known and most popular hotel area, with a lot of inexpensive hotels near the beach and easy access to the offered highlights and scenery of Rio. The best rooms always face the ocean and are accordingly the priciest. There is Le Meridien Copacabana, which holds the title of the most technologically advanced hotel in Asia Pacific, the Copacabana Palace Hotel, and the posh Sofitel Rio de Janiero, to name a few. The Ipanema and Leblon areas have grown in popularity as well, and are now considered to be even more lively- than Copacabana, with trendier shopping and a more vibrant nightlife. There is the Golden Tulip Ipanema Plaza, located in a sophisticated and charming corner of the Ipanema, and the Tryp Barra First, located in business district of Barra Da Tijuca. The hotels in the more historic neighborhoods of Gloria, Catete and Flamengo provide some excellent money saving options, and are located at a reasonable distance from downtown and Copacabana. During the ultra high season, which is the week between Christmas and New Years, and also the week of the Carnaval, most hotels will only accept reservations for set package deals (4-7 night minimum) and the prices are considerably more expensive. Searching for packages far in advance- before October- will save you a good bit of money, and will also secure the rooms of your choice. Many youth hostels for budget travelers and students are available throughout the city as well. There is the Ace Backpackers Youth Hostel, with excellent prices, Rio Hostel, and the Alpha Hostel to name a few. Hostels are always a great way to meet other travelers, exchange stories, and make friends. Let the travel professionals at AR Tourism arrange the perfect vacation for you, while saving you money and eliminating the inconvenience of handling overseas arrangements. AR Tourism - Brazil Vacation Travel Agency