Identification and relationship unknown
Lucie Field and Harry G. Morrison, Gibson County Surveyor.
      The Field Cemetery is located on Military Donation Number 10, in Gibson County, Indiana. It is not far from the Field-Morrison Cemetery. The originally land grant was to Pierre LaForrest, Keen Field acquired this land in 1799. Eventually Benjamin R. Field owned the land. A drawing of the farm can be found in Jas. Tart's opposite page 190.       The cemetery is located on a steep hill near the center of the property. It is very inaccessible. As far as we know no Field descendant has visited the cemetery since Marjorie Mallott's visit in 1972.       The cemetery is in relatively good shape for being left alone for a very long time. The stones that are visible are all on the ground. Many are quite readable. Some that are reported to have been there are no longer to be found. These stones may be buried in the dirt and leaf litter. Hopefully some day they maybe located.       There are stones in the cemetery that had not been recorded by either Marjorie Mallott or the Gibson County Historical Society. This was a surprise to us because we knew that these people had lived but we did not know where they were buried.       We feel really fortunate to have had the opportunity to visit the cemetery during the summer of 1999. The opportunity to visit the cemetery came about as a result of a meeting with Harry G. Morrison. Lucie was in the Gibson County Surveyor's office to get a map of the county cemeteries. Harry was the person who gave her the map. He asked her if she were looking for her great great grandfather and she siad no, she already knew he was buried in the Field-Morrison Cemetery. Harry commented that he was a Morrison and wondered if he and Lucie were "kin". He said he was a descendent of the Morrisons that were buried in the same cemetery. After talking with Harry for a while we mentioned the Field Cemetery and he said he had been there recently and observed several stones. He is a friend of the owner and said he was certain we would be given access to the land if we just asked. I telephoned the owner and he was more than willing to allow us on the land and suggested Harry might be willing to be our guide. A quick phone call to Harry resulted in an offer to take us there the following morning.       We were really pleased to find the cemetery in a state of natural decay. There are no signs of willful damage and we are very grateful for that. It is our hope that in the near future we can find a way to restore the cemetery to a state as close as possible to its original condition. We have promise of some help in this endeavor.       We want to thank Harry Morrison and the owners of the land for giving us the opportunity to visit this cemetery.History of Gibson County
      Keen Field and Anna Lewis moved into Gibson County, Indiana, sometime in 1799. (then Knox County) They had three children, Abraham, Elizabeth and Benjamin R. Seven more were born in Gibson County, Cynthia, Joseph Riley, Stephen Lewis, Thomas Withers, Reuben R., Ezekiel and Keen Wither, Jr. The families of Keen and Anna were from Virginia. Detailed information about Keen and Anna can be found elsewhere on this website       Most of the people for whom we have tombstone inscriptions from Gibson, Elkhart, Porter and Vigo Counties, Indiana, Greene and Shelby Counties, Illinois, are descendants of Keen and Anna. Those from Culpeper County, Virginia were ancestors or relatives of ancestors of Keen.
      When known, we have shown the relation of each person to Keen and Anna.