 
Music Library and Technology Center
A great school of music demands an excellent library where serious research and study can be conducted. The Frost School of Music possesses one of the nation’s major university music library collections; however, at present these collections are housed separately in two campuses. Books, reference works, videos, DVDs, periodicals and microforms are contained in the Otto G. Richter Library, a short distance away from music facilities. The school’s Larry Taylor-Billy Matthews American Musical Theatre Collection, one of the largest resources in the southeast, also is located in the MusicLibrary. The Albert Pick Music Library, located in the center of the music complex, is staffed by specialists and contains 127,000 scores, recordings, and books. Some older journal volumes must be maintained in off-campus storage . Additionally, areas for study and reading are extremely limited. Because every square foot of the Pick Library has been utilized, additional space is urgently needed. The new Frost School Music Library will draw together these important collections in a modern, comprehensive facility. The new library will provide essential research and study spaces including reading rooms, seminar rooms, and music listening rooms, as well as attractive public spaces.
Advanced Technology Center
The best-prepared music graduates must receive both solid traditional training and have the technological literacy for working in tomorrow’s music industry. Hence, the Frost School incorporates technology training in all of its degree programs. For the school to maintain its position as a leader in this training, an Advanced Technology Center is essential. To be located in the same structure as the new music library, this facility will contain the most current computer-based laboratories, including the following: • Music Engineering Lab • Keyboard/Computer/Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) Labs • Multimedia Instruction and Learning Lab (MILL) • Electronic Computer Music Lab • Media Writing and Production Lab
 