Back to top
What causes OCD?
There are different theories about why OCD develops. One theory is that lack of a brain chemical, serotonin, has a role in OCD, although experts disagree about what that role is. Its unclear whether changes in the levels of this chemical are a cause or effect of the problem, but some medication is based on adjusting these levels.
Other theories suggest it is caused by personal experience. The origins may lie in childhood and early experience. One or both parents may have had similar anxiety and shown similar kinds of behaviour, such as obsessional washing, for example (see above). Or it may be linked to a trauma, such as being sexually abused, possibly causing an obsessive fear of men and a dread of contamination by them. The obsessions can be triggered by particular memories and experiences.
Personality may play a large part in whether and how people respond. Its suggested that people who are perfectionists by nature may be more prone to obsessions or OCD.
The way you see the world will influence how you respond to life. These views may be based on assumptions that are flawed or incorrect, without you even knowing it, because youve never challenged them. These convictions may have become quite unshakeable, because your experience of life always seems to reinforce them.
To give a very simplified example, you might be brought up by anxious parents to feel your environment is very threatening. This may lead you to believe that unless you wash constantly, dangerous germs may make you very ill. This view could be based on your parents misunderstanding information from a doctor (see the quote above). As a result of this, the world may feel like a very dangerous place to you, because germs are all around and cant be controlled. In this way, your experience of life may already have made you more prone than average to OCD (and there are likely to be other factors or negative experiences contributing to this). If you, or someone you love, then fall very ill, it may reinforce your feelings of vulnerability, making you more anxious. You may begin to be troubled by frightening thoughts that something bad is going to happen to your own children. You may eventually come to feel that the only way to keep everybody safe, and to cope with your intolerable anxiety, is to wash your hands, repeatedly.
Back to top
What sort of treatment is there?
The symptoms of OCD can clearly be very distressing, and if you are performing endless rituals they will have a serious impact on your life. While there is no instant cure for OCD, there are a number of different treatments and coping strategies you could adopt (see below) to help overcome your symptoms. You may want to get professional help, or work out your own strategies. There is no right or wrong way to feel or thing to do. Different approaches work for different people. As a first step, you might visit your GP, who could refer you to a psychiatrist or psychologist. When doctors make a diagnosis of OCD, they use a list of medical criteria. The diagnosis is based on how many of these criteria you meet, and it also tells you how severe your problem is, and therefore what sort of treatment might work for you.
Medication
Some people find drug treatment helpful for OCD, either alone or combined with talking treatments. The drugs prescribed most commonly are SSRI antidepressants, such as fluoxetine (trade name, Prozac), fluvoxamine (Faverin), paroxetine (Seroxat), escitalopram (Cipralex) and sertraline (Lustral), which are all licensed for the treatment of OCD. Fluvoxamine and sertraline may both be given to children under specialist advice. (SSRI antidepressants should not be used to treat depression in children under the age of 18, but this does not apply to these two drugs for treating OCD.) These drugs may have side effects, including nausea, headache, sleep disturbance, gastric upsets and increased anxiety. They may also cause sexual problems.
The tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine (Anafranil) is also licensed for the treatment of obsessional states in adults. The side effects can include a dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, drowsiness and dizziness. (For more information see .) Making sense of antidepressants
In the past, people may have been given tranquillising drugs from the benzodiazepine group, such as diazepam (Valium), to reduce anxiety; but this is now discouraged, and limited to short periods of treatment for those people who are experiencing very severe anxiety. (See .) Making sense of sleeping pills and minor tranquillisers
Withdrawal problems may occur with all of these drugs, and it's advisable to withdraw gradually. (See .) Making sense of coming off psychiatric drugs
Some people have found combining talking therapies with medication especially useful. There are different kinds of suitable talking treatments, including counselling and psychotherapy. Counselling provides support, usually on a once-a-week basis, helping people deal with specific problems. Psychotherapy may be more frequent and long-term, and focuses on the causes of distress, as well as developing coping strategies. Counsellors and psychotherapists may be trained to work according to one or more theoretical approaches. (For more information, see Minds booklet .) Access to these treatments on the NHS is variable, but you could also find your own therapist or source of help. (See )Talking treatments
Making sense of counselling Useful organisations.
Cognitive behaviour therapy
CBT is a form of counselling or therapy which aims to identify connections between thoughts, feelings and behaviour, and to help develop practical skills to manage them. There is considerable evidence to suggest that this therapy is especially effective in dealing with OCD. The behavioural element (also known as exposure therapy or desensitisation) helps people face fears and reduces their rituals. (See .) Making Sense of cognitive behaviour therapy
You could work with a psychologist, a psychiatrist, therapist, counsellor or primary care mental health worker within an agreed treatment plan. Who you would be working with will depend on the severity of the disorder. It will also depend on what services are available in your area. The Government is aiming to train many more practitioners to provide CBT on the NHS.
NICE (The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence) suggests that CBT should be the preferred form of talking therapy when treating OCD. (For more information, see on the NICE website.)NICE Clinical Guideline 31, 2006, Obsessive-compulsive disorder, Core interventions in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder and body dysmorphic disorder
Surgery on the brain  neurosurgery (previously known as psychosurgery)  is sometimes used in severe cases of OCD, when other treatments have been unsuccessful. This treatment is strictly regulated under the Mental Health Act, and can't be given without consent. It's used very rarely There is more information on this in Mind's web-based factsheet .Neurosurgery for mental disorder
Back to top
What help is available?
Under the Care Programme Approach (CPA) in England, and its equivalent in Wales, everyone referred to psychiatric services should be provided with an assessment of their social and health care needs, a care plan, a care coordinator and a regular review.
You are entitled to say what your needs are and have a right to have an advocate, who can listen to you and speak for you, if you like. (A member of your family may act as an advocate, or you can ask about an advocacy service - also see .) The assessment can also include the needs of carers and relatives. The Mind guide to advocacy
The local Community Mental Health Team (CMHT) can make this assessment. They provide services in the community through a mixed team of social and health care professionals. The team might include a social worker, (see , below), a psychiatrist, a psychologist, an occupational therapist, and a community psychiatric nurse who can help with medication. It may also include a counsellor and community support workers. One of the team members will act as care coordinator. He or she should be in regular contact with you.Community Mental Health Teams
Community care services
Social services can make an assessment of your needs for community care services, separately, if required. These involve everything from day care to housing needs and advice and help on practical matters, such as accommodation and welfare benefits. Their aim is to provide services in the home or in supported accommodation. You might need careworkers, and since many areas now charge for this, this cost should be included in the needs assessment. (Whether you have to pay for it yourself depends on your financial situation.)Community care services
Once your community care assessment has confirmed that you need services, you may be eligible to claim direct payments, which will allow you to buy the care you need yourself, rather than social services providing it. Local social services or the National Centre for Independent Living should be able to provide this information (see ).Direct payments
Useful organisations
Back to top
What can people do for themselves?
Treatment of OCD often includes a combination of strategies, including self-help. You may wish to devise your own self-help programme, based on cognitive behaviour therapy techniques. The organisations listed below can offer advice and details of such programmes. Also see the self-help books listed under .Further reading
It can be useful to share experiences and methods of coping with others. Self-help groups can provide help, support and encouragement, whether or not you are having professional help. But they can be of particular benefit if you are operating your own programme. You could contact your local Mind association or social services, who may be able to tell you if there is a group local to you. You could also try any of the organisations listed underSelf-help groups
Useful Organisations.
Relaxation techniques can teach you:Relaxation techniques
how to improve your breathing to lessen tension
physical exercises to do to relax your muscles
action plans to help you progress from coping with non-stressful situations, to those that you find difficult.
For local classes, search the internet, or contact your local library or GP. (Also see .) The Mind guide to relaxation
You should be able to get information about local mental health services from your GP, social services department of your council, local Mind association, Community Mental Health Team, or Patient Advice and Liaison Services (in England) or your Community Health Council (in Wales). These include details of local projects that provide services to particular communities, such as Black and minority ethnic communities, women, disabled people, lesbians and gay men. You may also find details in your local phone book.Local services
Back to top
What can friends or family do to help?
As a friend or family member of someone with OCD, you can help a lot just by accepting their feelings and knowing that they find it difficult to cope with them. It can be particularly difficult for someone experiencing the symptoms of OCD to acknowledge their thoughts, and if you give them the impression they are being difficult or exaggerating, it can result in greater distress and anxiety.
If they are working to a self-help programme, either on their own or with a therapist of some kind, you could find out how you can support them with this, or you could go with them to treatment sessions.
It can be distressing to be close to someone experiencing OCD. You might find it useful to talk to other people in the same situation, and to find out more about these complex problems. Try contacting one of the organisations listed below or consulting publications listed under .Further reading
Back to top
Useful organisations
tel. 0161 797 4484 web: Can provide details of accredited therapistsBritish Association for Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP)