 
With a near-perfect climate, incredible mountains and canyons, and a wealth of Tucson activities and tourist attractions, the city nicknamed "Old Pueblo" is a draw for millions of travelers each year. The Radisson Suites Tucson is in the heart of it all, with its central location to a variety of museums, shops, restaurants, golf courses, and the University of Arizona. Our hotel makes it easy for you to take advantage of the busy Tucson event calendar with a friendly staff and convenient setting: Sports spectators will be delighted to discover the exciting games and exhibitions offered throughout the year as part of the Tucson event calendar. From February through April, Tucson is the only city in the nation to host three Major League Baseball spring training teams, allowing visitors to watch games played by: the Arizona Diamondbacks, Colorado Rockies, World Champion Chicago White Sox and The Sidewinder's, Arizona Triple AAA baseball team, all on the same day! This unique opportunity is enhanced by the Diamondbacks intimate atmospheres of Tucson Electric Park (home of the Diamondbacks and White Sox) and Hi Corbett Field (home of the Rockies), where attendants will be face-to-face with the action. If you’re lucky, you might even run into a player or two in our very own lobby, With spacious suites designed to comfortably accommodate up to four people, the Radisson Suites Tucson is the perfect location for experiencing the exciting tradition of Spring Training. If the swing of the bat doesn’t set your spine tingling, then perhaps you’ll take more pleasure in the swing of a club. With several prestigious golf tournaments on the Tucson events calendar &#150; including the Accenture Matchplay tournament - the city has distinguished a name for itself among the golfing world. But golf is not merely a spectator sport in Tucson. Offering a diverse array of challenging courses with breathtaking views, the city is a popular destination for golf aficionados everywhere. Hit the links early when you take advantage of our American breakfast buffet, served from 6:00am &#150; 10:00am. At the end of the day, a friendly get together in our Breeze Patio Bar & Grill will relax you before another exciting day spent on the greens. The list of sports-oriented Tucson activities is made complete with the annual El Tour de Tucson cycling event, where thousands of cyclists from around the world compete in a 109-mile perimeter race stretched throughout the city. With incredible opportunities for baseball, golf, and cycling enthusiasts, Tucson is truly the perfect setting for an action-packed vacation. From homecoming celebrations to sporting events, is perfect for proud parents and college athletics buffs. Located 70 miles north of Mexico, many tourists use our hotel as a relaxing stopover before heading south of the border for holiday shopping and spring-break vacations. Major league baseball fans will enjoy watching spring training games in March. And, our warm climate attracts conventions and conferences from around the country. Some of the upcoming happenings on our Tucson event calendar include:
Incredible Tucson Activities And Local Events...
Six miles from University of Arizona
20 minutes from Tucson Convention Center
Calling All Sports Fans For Spring Training And Local Tucson Activities…