Wine typology & culinary pairing
Neusiedlersee-Hügelland: Fabulous. Delicious. Premium. Red, White and Sweet Wines.
At the foot of the Leithagebirge, west of the Neusiedlersee (Lake Neusiedl), is the Neusielersee-Hügelland, home to the talented all-rounders of Austria´s wine growers. With 4,150 hectares of vineyards, no other wine-growing area features such a variety of wines. And one of them - the renowned Ruster Ausbruch – is a sweet wine that not only reflects strong regional identity, but also is heralded all around the world. In the Neusiedlersee-Hügelland, young wine-growers – both men and women – combine innovative thinking with respect for long-held traditions.
Topographically, climatically and geologically, the wine-growing area of Neusiedlersee-Hügelland shows great diversity - and produces perfect terroir wines. White wines feature mainly the Pinot varieties, but also specialities like Sauvignon Blanc and the traditional Furmint show their finesse and esprit. And even growing on patches of primary rock near Donnerskirchen are none other than Grüner Veltliner and Riesling. In the red wine arena is everything from Blaufränkisch, which yields fine wines produced by big names, to the sensitive and elegant Blauburgunder (Pinot Noir).
From north to south lie three very different wine-growing communities. On the south-facing slopes of the Leithagebirge - one of the last foothills of the Alps, stretching from Breitenbrunn to Großhöflein near Eisenstadt - are soils of mica schist and chalk, which is ideal for producing minerally wines rich in character. Another area is near the Neusiedlersee lake itself - for example, around Oggau, Rust and Mörbisch – where moderate temperatures, reflection of sunlight and high autumn humidity help create aromatic white wines and very mature red wines. Botrytis cinerea is at the core of the Ruster Ausbruch – a wine with a glorious past, and now undergoing a remarkable renaissance. Further south, the third distinct area, is located around Zagersdorf and Pöttelsdorf. Here, ideal conditions prevail for red wines, particularly Blaufränkisch. The climate and soils are similar to the neighbouring Mittelburgenland wine-growing area.