Being prepared can prevent injury or death during severe weather. that broadcast weather bulletins. Watch the weather and monitor radio stations
Choose a Shelter in advance. Good places to be during severe storms are basements, storm cellars, and fall-out shelters or underneath stairs or sturdy furniture in the centre of the house.
Maintain an emergency kit containing food supplies, extra clothing, blankets, a first aid kit and medications, a battery-powered radio with fresh batteries, a flashlight, lantern, and tools for emergency repair jobs. Check them often and keep them together in your shelter area. Carry a similar kit in your vehicle.
Preventative maintenance. Trim dead or rotting branches regularly, and remove dead trees to prevent them from toppling over during a storm.
Choose a meeting place to make sure everyone in your family is safe and sound after a severe storm, in case you become separated.
Maintain a full gas tank in your car, in case gas stations forced to shut down in the aftermath of a severe storm.
Report downed hydro lines and power outages to the proper authorities.
Thunderstorms
Summer thunderstorms are a fairly common occurrence in most of Canada, providing much-needed precipitation for gardens, crops and other purposes. Unfortunately, a small percentage of summer thunderstorms intensify to the extent that they become evere,causing damage to property and threatening lives. Environment Canada will issue a severe thunderstorm or tornado warning if heavy rain, high winds, tornadoes, hail or intense lighting are present or expected. The storm expected motion and developments are also provided in the weather warning. If you hear a weather warning and are in the area specified, take appropriate precautions.
Tornadoes
Tornadoes are unmistakable rotating columns of high-velocity wind that bring devastation to anything is their path. Ontario averages 20 tornadoes per year. Most tornadoes occur in June and July although the season extends from April to September. They can occur at any time of the year. They frequently develop in mid-afternoon to early evening. Environment Canada warns the public about tornadoes but because they are hard to predict and can move at up to 70km per hour, a tornado can strike without warning. Typically, a tornado is preceded by a severe thunderstorm and is associated with black skies, strong wind and heavy rain or hail. Sometimes the sky will turn an unusual green colour and the wind will sound like a freight train.
When a tornado threatens:
Take shelter immediately, if available, preferably in the basement or lowest level of a sturdy building.
Stay aware from windows, doors and exterior walls. Flying glass is extremely dangerous.
Don waste time opening windows to keep pressure from building up in the house. It unlikely to help anyway.
Outdoors, with no shelter available, lie flat in a ditch, ravine or other low lying area, and shield your head with your arms.
Don get caught in a vehicle or mobile home, which the tornado can lift. Take shelter elsewhere or, if none is available, even a ditch offers better protection. Choose a location where your vehicle won be hurled or rolled on top of you. More than half of tornado deaths occur in mobile homes. If you live in a mobile home, it is wise to identify a nearby sturdy shelter well in advance, and go to that shelter when a severe storm is approaching.
Beware of flying debris. Even small objects such as sticks and straw can become lethal missiles.
In heavy rain, be on the look out for flash floods.
When swimming or boating, always head to shore at the first sight of a storm.
Remember that damaged and weakened structures, fallen debris, downed electrical wires, and gas leaks are potential dangers after a storm has passed.
Hail
Hail forms in the core of a thunderstorm. Water vapour in warm, rapidly rising air masses (convection currents) condenses into water at higher, cooler altitudes producing heavy rain showers. If it is cold enough, ice crystals can form around minute particles such as dust whipped up from the ground. These increase in size as more water freezes onto their surfaces. When the ice pellets are too heavy for the ascending air currents to lift, they fall as hail. They may become larger, heavier and more damaging if they collect more water on the way down. Hailstones have a minimum diameter of half a centimetre. Below that they are defined as snow or ice pellets. Hail can grow larger than 10 centimetres -- the size of a grapefruit. Hail can hit the ground at 130 kilometres per hour and can cause severe damage to crops, houses and vehicles as well as injuries to people and animals. Hail occurs right across Canada, though more frequently in Alberta, the southern Prairies and southern Ontario. For many Canadians, a hail storm is an intriguing rarity but for farmers whose crops are crushed -- or other Canadians whose homes and cars are damaged -- a hailstorm can translate into a financial burden.
Hail Warning
Hail can cause serious personal injury, stay inside and away from windows.
Pets and livestock are also vulnerable to injury so ensure animals are properly sheltered.
Inspect your property and vehicles thoroughly for damage.
Last Updated - March 18, 2008
For more information please contact Halton Region at:
| 905-825-6000 905-827-9833 | 1-866-4HALTON (1-866-442-5866)E-mail: accesshalton@halton.ca Tel:
TTY:Toll free: