The Peabody Orlando offers a full range of Orlando hotel packages and specials to appeal to all ages and tastes. Choose from our distinguished collection of Orlando hotel specials, designed to help you fulfill your dream vacation in this traveler's paradise, including: Hooray for Hollywood! With our LightsCameraAction package, you'll feel like a movie star when you check into The Peabody Orlando and experience Universal's Island of Adventure and the Universal Orlando theme parks, which are just minutes from our front drive. The package includes: $229 per night including tax, (two-night minimum stay) in a Superior Room. Additional nights at value rate plus tax. Devote the evening to romance with a luxury vacation in this magical place. Treat your special someone to an evening in one of our deluxe guest rooms, and enjoy complimentary champagne, flowers, and welcome cocktails for two. Dinner is on the house at Capriccio Grill Italian Steakhouse, our renowned restaurant specializing in U.S. Prime Steaks and chops, seafood and pasta. This heartwarming and romantic Orlando hotel package includes: $450 for the first night including tax; additional nights available at $225 plus tax. Guest is responsible for additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Make your escape from everyday hassles with this indulgent Peabody Orlando hotel package. Pampering begins with deluxe guestroom accommodations and complimentary valet parking. Savor some of the finest cuisines in any of our award-winning restaurants. Designed for total relaxation, this Orlando luxury vacation package includes: $299 per per night including tax; additional nights available at $199 plus tax. Guest is responsible for additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Experience the elegance and Southern hospitality traditions of The Peabody Orlando - a Mobil Four-Star, AAA Four Diamond hotel located directly across from the Orange County Convention Center.
A Wealth Of Orlando Hotel Packages And Specials