Texas Hold'Em poker
Texas Hold'Em poker is one of the most popular poker game in the world. Ten people can play this game at once. Each player receives two cards (also called hole cards) and five community cards are dealt by the dealer. Community cards are cards that are dealt to the table. Players can use these cards to complete their hand.
The players can then bet on each new community card to complete their hand, where they try to make the best five card hand out of the five community cards and the two hole cards. The player does not have to use the two hole cards, it is his / her own choice to use the two cards, only one or maybe even none of them.
Omaha poker
Omaha poker is the popular four card poker game. Each player receives four cards from the dealer (these are also called pocket cards). The dealer then deals five community cards. Community cards are cards that are dealt to the table. Players can use these cards to complete their hand.
The players can then bet on each new community card to complete their hand, where they try to make the best five card hand out of the two of their pocket cards and three of the community cards.
Omaha Hi/Lo poker
Omaha Hi/Lo poker is probably one of the most challenging poker game versions. The cards are dealt the same way as with normal Omaha Poker. Each player receives four cards from the dealer (also known as pocket cards). The dealer then deals five community cards (these are cards that are dealt to the table). The players can use these cards to complete their hand.
The players can then bet on each new community card to complete their hand, where they try to make a five card hand out of two of their pocket cards and three of the community cards.
The difference between Omaha Poker and Omaha Hi/Lo Poker is that in Hi/Lo the pot is split between both the highest and the lowest hand. If a hand beats an 8 it does not qualify as a low hand. If none of the hands qualify as a low hand the pot will go to the highest hand.
Poker rooms where you can play Omaha poker are: and . 7 Sultans Poker Aztec Riches Poker
More poker rooms
Titan Poker
At Titan Poker you can play a variety of poker games including Texas Hold'em, Omaha, Omaha Hi-Lo and other games. Titan Poker
When you join Titan Poker and you make your first ever deposit you are entitled to a unique welcome bonus. You can get up to $500 extra cash. You don't get this money in one lump sum but instead it is released to your account whilst playing at either ring games or tournaments. During your play you will earn points. Once you have earned 1,000 points $10 is put back into your account (See the Titan Poker website for more information).
Aztec Riches Poker
offers you six of the most popular poker games: Texas Hold'Em, Omaha, Omaha Hi/Lo, Seven Card Stud, 1 on 1 Poker and Five Card Stud. You can also enter the poker tournament system. Aztec Riches is part of the Prima Poker Network. Aztec Riches Poker
They will give you a 25% match play bonus (up to $50 free chips) on your first deposit of $20 or more.
Updated on 23 Feb 2006
2006 1 Online Poker Room