If you have a question, browse through the frequently asked questions section below. If you can't find the answer to your question, select a link on the right for options to contact Bobcat Company direct.
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I get a parts, service or operator's manual for my Bobcat machine?
Bobcat Company does not sell manuals direct to the public. For all your manual needs (on current and non-current Bobcat machines), please contact your local authorized Bobcat dealer's parts department. They will be happy to order for you and to quote pricing. To help you find your nearest dealer we have provided a Dealer Locator.
Where can I obtain parts for my Bobcat equipment?
Genuine Bobcat Parts are only available through your local authorized Bobcat dealer. Your local Bobcat Parts and Service departments have the knowledge and experience to assist you with the maintenance and service of your equipment. To find a dealer near you, please click here to go to our Dealer Locator.
What training materials does Bobcat provide?
All Bobcat training materials (operation, service and safety) are available for purchase at the and are available at your local authorized Bobcat dealer. Many dealers also conduct in-house training. View additional training information at section of Bobcat.com where you can preview training videos to determine which ones will best fit your needs. Bobcat Store Training Resources
What do the Bobcat model numbers mean?
Basics of the Bobcat model numbering system are as follows: The initial letter designation is the type of product: S Skid-Steer Loader T Compact Track Loader A All-Wheel Steer Loader MT Mini-Track Loader V VersaHandler Telescopic Tool Carrier Regarding Loaders, the numbers following designate the Rated Operating Capacity (ROC): S205 Skid-Steer Loader with 2050 lb ROC T140 Compact Track Loader with 1400 lb ROC A300 All-Wheel Steer Loader with 3000 lb ROC MT55 Mini Track Loader with 550 lb ROC
Regarding VersaHandlers, the numbers following designate rated load capacities and maximum lift height: V417 VersaHandler with rated load capacity of 4,400 pounds and a maximum lift height of 17 feet
For more information please contact your local authorized Bobcat dealer. They are your Bobcat specialist and are there to service you. For your convenience in finding the dealer nearest you we have provided a . Dealer Locator
What kind of hydraulic fluid do you recommend in my Bobcat machine?
Bobcat recommends you use BobcatHydraulic/Hydrostatic Fluid because it is a unique fluid, custom blended with the finest base oils and additives to meet Bobcat Engineering stringent specifications for quality and reliability. It is the same premium fluid as factory fill.
Bobcat Hydraulic/Hydrostatic fluid is a special blend of high quality lubricants designed to provide optimum flow at subzero temperatures yet maintain excellent stability during periods of high temperature use.
Bobcat Hydraulic/Hydrostatic fluid formula cannot be duplicated from off-the-shelf hydraulic fluids.
This exclusive hydraulic/hydrostatic fluid is now blended with a distinct orange color to distinguish it uniqueness from other fluids. Contact your for more information. Local Dealer
How do I find used Bobcat equipment?
You may contact your local authorized Bobcat dealer for used and new equipment, and ask them if they have other sources of used equipment listings. You can also use our new to find used equipment in your area. Many of our dealers' websites list available used equipment. You may also find information in your local paper, auctions or on the Internet. For your convenience in finding the dealer nearest you, we have provided a .