[] edit Observation
Observation is typically made via different 'channels' of the , in particular, the and portions. Electromagnetic spectrum Visible Infrared
Some of these channels include : [3] [4]
0.6 m - 1.6 m - For recording cloud cover during the dayVisible and Near Infrared:
3.9 m - 7.3 m (Water Vapour), 8.7 m, - 13.4 m (Thermal imaging)Infrared:
[] edit History
The first television image of Earth from space from the TIROS-1 weather satellite.
The first weather satellite, , was launched on , . It was designed to measure cloud cover and resistance, but a poor axis of rotation kept it from collecting a notable amount of useful data. Vanguard 2 February 17 1959
The first weather satellite to be considered a success was , launched by NASA on . TIROS operated for 78 days and proved to be much more successful than Vanguard 2. TIROS paved the way for the , whose technology and findings are the heritage of most of the Earth-observing satellites NASA and NOAA have launched since then. TIROS-1 1 April 1960 Nimbus program
[] edit Visible spectrum
Visible-light images from weather satellites during local daylight hours are easy to interpret even by the average person; clouds, cloud systems such as fronts and tropical , , , , snow ice, fires, and pollution such as smoke, , dust and haze are readily apparent. Even can be determined by cloud patterns, alignments and movement from successive photos. storms lakes forests mountains smog wind
[] edit Infrared spectrum
The thermal or infrared images recorded by sensors called scanning radiometers enable a trained analyst to determine cloud heights and types, to calculate land and surface water temperatures, and to locate ocean surface features. satellite imagery can be used effectively for with a visible pattern, using the , where the difference between the temperature of the warm eye and the surrounding cold cloud tops can be used to determine its intensity (colder cloud tops generally indicate a more intense storm). Infrared pictures depict ocean eddies or vortices and map currents such as the Gulf Stream which are valuable to the shipping industry. and are interested in knowing land and water temperatures to protect their crops against frost or increase their catch from the sea. Even El Ni o phenomena can be spotted. Using color-digitized techniques, the gray shaded thermal images can be converted to color for easier identification of desired information. Infrared tropical cyclones eye Dvorak technique [5] Fishermen farmers
Image from the GOES-9 weather satellite of Hurricane Felix.
There are two basic types of meteorological satellites: and . geostationary polar orbiting
[] edit Geostationary
Geostationary weather satellites orbit the Earth above the at of 35,880 km (22,300 miles). Because of this , they remain stationary with respect to the rotating Earth and thus can record or transmit images of the entire hemisphere below continuously with their visible-light and infrared sensors. The use the geostationary photos in their daily weather presentation as single images or made into movie loops. equator altitudes orbit news media
Several geostationary meteorological spacecraft are in operation. The has two in operation; -11 and GOES-12. GOES-12 is designated GOES-East, over the and provides most of the U.S. weather information. GOES-11 is GOES-West over the eastern . The have one in operation; -1R over the mid Pacific at 140 E. The have -8 (3.5 W) and Meteosat-9 (0 ) over the and have Meteosat-6 (63 E) and Meteosat-7 (57.5 E) over the . The operate the over the equator south of . also operates geostationary satellites which carry instruments for meteorological purposes. operates the  ) geostationary satellites, FY-2C at 105 E, FY-2D at 86.5 E and FY-2E at 123.5 E. United States GOES Amazon River Pacific Ocean Japanese MTSAT Europeans Meteosat Atlantic Ocean Indian Ocean Russians GOMS Moscow India China Feng-Yun