By October Smith Kniess, Attorney at Law
Published:  July 17, 2004
The custodial parent always claims the child on taxes unless you have an agreement otherwise, or unless the Court orders otherwise. A court will sometimes give you the tax exemptions and deductions if the custodial parent is un-employed or under-employed, or if you pay more than 50% of the total support for that child. Frequently, Courts will give you the exemption in alternating years. Sometimes, when there is more than one child, the Court will apportion the exemptions between the parents.How do tax exemptions work?
The custodial parent pays the first 6% each year of the basic child support obligation ( line 4 from the worksheet times 52) and any remaining uninsured medical is split by the pro-rata income shares from the worksheet.What about uninsured medical expense?
The guidelines are intended to produce a child support amount which covers every expense related to the up-bringing of your child. If you pay for things over and above your support obligation, you are making a gift and in most cases, you will not receive any credit. The guideline support amounts are generous. You should not be paying for anything else.How do I pay for School clothes, extra-curricular activities, etc.?
The child support continues until the child is 21, or when the child is emancipated by the Court. The Court can emancipate a child prior to the 21st birthday if he marries, joins the military, becomes self-supporting, or is over 18 and has not been enrolled in school for more than 4 months.What is emancipation of the child?
The Court can Order you to pay support AND your fair share of the child's college expense. The Order for the payment of College expense ( if entered PRIOR to the child's 21st birthday) can continue even after the child is 21.How do I cover college expenses?
It is usually the visiting parent's obligation to transport the child to and from visits. If there is substantial distance, the Court can Order the parties to share the cost. Sometimes, the Court Orders the person who has moved far away to pay all the costs of transportation.What about transportation for visits?
Last modified:  January 11, 2005 - 12:33 PM