The Beauty of Lake Las Vegas Golf Courses Captured Through the Lens
Search Golf Las Vegas Now
* Email
Ride in style to Las Vegas golf courses with , official transportation of GolfLasVegasNow.com Bell Trans
The Beauty of Lake Las Vegas Golf Courses Captured Through the Lens
September 30, 3008--There are two resort Las Vegas golf courses located at Lake Las Vegas Resort, one designed by Jack Nicklaus, and one by Tom Weiskopf. Nicklaus' is a Las Vegas resort golf course as is Weiskopf's . Also on property is SouthShore Golf Club, Nicklaus' only private Las Vegas golf course. And now you can view the beauty of these Las Vegas resort golf courses by clicking the official photo gallery at .
Reflection Bay Golf Club The Falls Golf Club golfllv.com
Lake Las Vegas Resort is described as such by representatives of the resort: "Sculpted from the rugged desert terrain of Southern Nevada, Lake Las Vegas Resort lies nestled within the desert mountainside just 17 miles from the world renowned Las Vegas Strip. Boasting world class hotels and spas, championship golf, and spectacular residential communities from amongst the finest builders in the nation, Lake Las Vegas Resort offers both guests and residents alike an unmatched experience centered around the 320 - acre privately-owned lake."
You can book your official Lake Las Vegas golf tee times and Lake online via golfllv.com. The hotels available at Lake Las Vegas Resort include and the in addition to Montelago Resort. Las Vegas golf packages Loew's Ritz Carlton
Reflection Bay Golf Club is a par 72, 7,261-yard Las Vegas golf course that is a past host of the Wendy's Three-Tour Challenge. Five holes play along the beautiful shoreline of Lake Las Vegas. Reflection Bay Golf Club has been named one of America's Top 100 Greatest Public Resort course by Golf Digest. award-winning
The Falls Golf Club is a par 72, 7,250-yard course, and is also an award-winning . The front nine plays on the desert floor while the back nine takes golfers on a wondrous, mountainess Las Vegas golf journey. Golf Digest named this Las Vegas golf course as the "Best New Upscale Golf Course in 2004." Las Vegas resort golf course  
Official Websites for Las Vegas Golf Courses/Tee Times