Contact
Pet Cancer Signs
Just as in people, early detection is critical. That's why it's so important to check your pet regularly
If your pet has any of these cancer early warning signs, visit your veterinarian as soon as possible for a complete examination. A variety of reports from the EPA, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the California Department of Fish and Game conclude in no uncertain terms the hazards of environmental and household toxins including lawn fertilizers, detergents, and cleaners. These all have warning labels relative to children and pets, and many veterinarians see a link between environmental toxins and pet cancer. There are safer options to explore. Due to improper breeding practices certain breeds of dogs are genetically prone to canine cancer including: When choosing a dog or a cat, question the breeder as to the incidence of canine or feline cancer in the line. And always avoid animals that have been "mass" bred in puppy and kitten farms or "mills". It has been clinically proven that over-vaccinations can actually weaken your pet's immune system, setting the stage for pet cancer. Sadly, cats can now suffer from a specific type of feline cancer named "Vaccine Induced Fibro Sarcoma." It develops at the vaccine site on your pet's skin as a direct side effect of over-vaccination. While initial puppy and kitten vaccinations are required and necessary, try to avoid automatically vaccinating every year. Speak with your veterinarian about spreading out the vaccinations and inoculate only those for diseases that are prevalent in your geographical area. It's also a good idea to check your pet's immunity with a blood titer test before vaccinating. If your veterinarian is not familiar with a lab that does titer testing, suggest that he or she contacts Antech Diagnostics for titer testing information (800-872-1001). You may also want to confer with a holistic veterinarian who is knowledgeable in minimizing the potential side effects of vaccines after they are given. Do a "Toxic Screening" of your household and environment. Exposure to chemicals in the environment and even small daily doses of chemical additives and preservatives in their food can build up and be carcinogenic. Find out what's really in your or food at BlueBuff.com. That why it important to take a serious look at the products you have around your house, get rid of the toxic ones, and substitute safer products.
Early Pet Cancer Warning Signs as identified by the Veterinary Cancer Society.
Abnormal swelling that persists
Sores that do not heal
Loss of weight
Bleeding or discharge from any body opening
Offensive odor
Hesitation to exercise or loss of stamina
Persistent lameness or stiffness
Difficulty breathing, urinating or defecating
What Causes Pet Cancer?