You will find many more resources related to black women throughout the various subject categories of my . Though it's designed for grades 6-12, most of the resources are appropriate for adults. African American Studies Toolkit
Suggested Reading List
This list is by no means exhaustive. I simply provide a list of what I think are basic texts for black women's history, followed by books on specific topics that interest me. For your convenience, I have provided a link to for each title that's still in print. (You'll find reviews and additional information there.) Amazon.com
 Audible.com has hundreds of related audiobooks of fiction and non-fiction, including and more.Cane River, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, Their Eyes Were Watching God
Learn how you can get 2 audiobooks free right now! (Keywords "African American" )
Hine, Darlene Clark and Kathleen Thompson. New York: Broadway Books, 1999. Read more about it orA Shining Thread of Hope: History of Black Women in America. order at Amazon.com
If I had my way, this book would be required reading in every U.S. History Survey course. It's an exceptionally readable text and quite a page-turner...I found it difficult to put down! The first comprehensive history of black women in America written by a trained historian, it's a celebration of the strength, determination and creativity of black women throughout America's history, as told through the stories (and often, the very words) of hundreds of individual women from all eras and all classes. Give this one to your daughter...or to your mom.
Giddings, Paula. 2nd Ed. Morrow, 1996. Read more about it orWhen and Where I Enter: The Impact of Black Women on Race and Sex in America. order at Amazon.com
When the first edition was published in 1984, this book provided the first cohesive history of black women in America, and a startling new interpretation to American history. It's a testimionial to the profound influence black women have had on race and gender issues; for example, in 1892 Anna Julia Cooper told a group of black clergymen, "Only the black woman can say 'when and where I enter, in the quiet, undisputed dignity of my womanhood, without violence and without suing or special patronage, then and there the whole . . . race enters with me."
Hine, Darlene Clark, Elsa Barkley Brown and Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, eds.Indiana University Press, 1993. Read more about it orBlack Women in America: An Historical Encyclopedia. order at Amazon.com
Originally published in hardcover at about $200, the paperback version is more affordable (around $40) yet has all the same information, including all the illustrations and over 800 entries and 400 signed essays by scholars. Each entry includes bibliographical information. It should be on every library shelf.
Smith, Jesse Carne, ed. Gale, 2002. Read more about it orNotable Black American Women, Third Edition. order at Amazon.com
This new edition will be published in December 2002. 500 biographical entries, 425 of which are contemporary women.
Edited by Darlene C. Hine and Kathleen Thompson. Facts on File 1997.Facts on File Encyclopedia of Black Women in America.
Designed for grades six and up, this series builds upon with more than 1000 entries profiling 950 women. The writing is clear, lively and accessible. The set is organized by topic, with individual volumes focusing on areas such as literature, business and professions, music, theater and the arts, social activism and politics, and education. Each section also includes an introduction and brief history of the topic.Black Women in America,
This can be purchased at Amazon.com as anfor under $400, or individually: Volume I: . Volume II: . Volume III: . Volume IV: Volume V: . Volume VI: Volume VII: . Volume VIII: . Volume IX: . Volume X: . Volume XI:. eleven-volume set
Science, Health & Medicine
Hine, Darlene Clark, Wilma King and Linda Reed, eds. . Brooklyn, NY: Carlson 1995. Read more about it orWe Specialize in the Wholly Impossible: A Reader in Black Women's History order at Amazon.com
For its title, this book of thirty-two essays borrows the motto of Nannie Helen Burroughs and her National Trade and Professional School for Women and Girls. It provides an introduction to some of the most recent scholarship in the field. The essays are organized within six sections: General theoretical essays; Africa; Caribbean and Canada; US--18th century; US--19th century; and US--20th century.
Topics & Biographies
Knupfer, Anne Meis. Univeristy of Illinois Press, 2006.New!The Chicago Black Renaissance and Women's Activitism. Read more and Order at Amazon.com
The Chicago Black Renaissance was a revitalization of black expressive arts and community activism rooted in a pan-African identity which blossomed during the 1930's to the 1960's in Chicago's "Black Belt" - or, as residents preferred, "Bronzeville." It was also a tumultuous period in which longtime urban black Chicagoans were faced with assimilating thousands of rural migrants from the South.
The lens through which Knupfer examines the Renaissance is women's activism: as club members and individuals, as reformers of schools and libraries, builders of art and community centers, ministers, writers, politicians and more. They were highly successful in some areas; for example, the nation's oldest WPA arts center, South Side Community Art Center, continues to offer classes and host exhibitions, while the "Special Negro Section" begun in 1932 by the first black librarian in the Chicago Public Library system has evolved in the Vivian G. Harsh Research Collection of Afro-American History & Literature, one of the largest collections of African American historical documents in the nation. But the book also explores the failures and disappointments, which can be instructive to contemporary activists.
One of the most fascinating chapters for me was "Women's Activism in Public Housing" which explores the neglected topic of women's involvement in tenant associations and other public housing groups. This is a groundbreaking book, but as the author asserts, there is much more research yet to be done. In aid of this she suggests dissertation topics and provides two resources in the appendices: an annotated list of more than 200 women whose names are found in local black newspapers, archives and bibliographic sources, and a list of Chicago Black Southside community organizations and their addresses, 1930-1960. I'd recommend this engaging and highly readable book to those interested in Chicago history in general, and Women's or African American studies in particular.
Abrams, 2005.Bolden, Tonya. Maritcha: A Nineteenth-Century American Girl.Ages 9-12. Read more and Order at Amazon.com
Maritcha Remond Lyon was one of the lucky few black children born not into slavery but as a free citizen. Her parents were educated, well-respected and hardworking people who, in addition to creating a comfortable life for their children, quietly assisted in the efforts of the Underground Railroad. Maritcha overcame illness, segregation and the New York Draft Riots of 1863 to continue her education, becoming the first black woman ever to graduate high school in Rhode Island. She become an educator herself, teaching for nearly 50 years.
This book about her childhood is based upon her unpublished memoir completed shortly before her death in 1929. Delving further into that memoir, other family archives and documents of the time, author Tonya Bolden has recreated the era in which Maritcha lived and thrived. The book is filled with period photographs, maps, illustrations and even documents which bring Maritcha to life: for example, her father's handwritten inventory of property the family lost during the Draft Riots.
This is a marvelous book, thoroughly researched, engagingly written and lavishly illustrated. Though the reading level is for ages 9-12, I think older students would benefit greatly from reading this book to younger children because it offers an exciting window into a period of U.S. history rarely covered: What was it like to be a free black person during the era of slavery?
Several years back I was watching a documentary on Harriet Tubman in which one of her relatives was interviewed. I suddenly realized I had never thought of Tubman as a real person, with actual living relatives! Her legend looms so much larger than life that she hovers somewhere in the realm of Paul Bunyan. After a wait of nearly 60 years for an adult biography, 2004 brought us THREE:Three New Harriet Tubman Books!
Read more about it orLarson, Kate Clifford. . New York, NY: Ballatine Books 2004.Bound for the Promised Land: Harriet Tubman, Portrait of an American Hero order at Amazon.com
In her introduction, Larson says "We all believe we know Harriet Tubman" yet this knowledge is limited to the heroic myth of children's books. She does not seem real flesh and blood to us. Larson sets out to rectify this, and does so admirably. She spent years combing through primary sources such as court records and private letters to recreate for us a Harriet Tubman who lives and breathes. There's even a family tree. Along the way, some treasured myths are debunked. For example, there was never a $40,000 bounty on her head. Nor (as every school child can quote) did she make 19 trips and rescue 300 people; it's closer to 13 trips and 70 people, and she perhaps provided aid and instructions to another 50. None of which diminishes her heroism, of course. It simply makes her more accessible as a human being by setting the record straight. And what Larson adds to the record far outweighs what she takes away. 
This book can be challenging to read at times, because rather than stating her own conclusions as fact (e.g.Tubman's birth date, which she places in February or March of 1822) Larson sometimes presents several possibilities and provides evidence to support each; we are left to draw our own conclusions. But this provides groundwork for future researchers and, I feel, is a more honest than presuming finality where none is present. 
Humez, Jean M. Madison, WI: UW Press, 2004. Read more about it orHarriet Tubman: The Life and the Life Stories. order at Amazon.com
This book begins with a traditional biography, presenting the bare bones of Tubman's life. The section called 'Stories and Sayings' puts meat on those bones, breathing life into someone who has nearly been lost to us in legend. It's a fascinating concept, and I think it works. Equally amazing is the Documents section, reflecting 10 years of research and which will be required reading for any future Tubman scholars because, as Humez herself says, '...my retelling of her life story cannot be definitive.' Highly recommended.
Clinton, Catherine. New York, NY, Little Brown. Read more about it orHarriet Tubman - The Road to Freedom. order at Amazon.com
Clinton's style is highly readable, and she navigates smoothly through complex material. But she does not take advantage of the most current research in the field. For example, she recycles the myth about the $40,000 bounty. While I'd recommend this book for general readers, I feel academics and those with a deeper interest in the subject are better served by Kate Clifford Larson's or Jean Humez'sBound for the Promised LandHarriet Tubman: The Life and the Life Stories.
Boyd, Valerie. . New York: Scribner, 2003. Read more about it orNew!Wrapped in Rainbows: The Life of Zora Neale Hurston order at Amazon.com
It's been 25 years since the last biography, and this complex portrait is well worth the wait. Boyd is an excellent storyteller, and her narrative seamlessly weaves together Hurston's personal and professional life and work. There are surprises and revelations around every corner...for example, the author says that according to Alan Lomax, the most famous picture of Hurston (big floppy hat, head tossed back in a toothy grin) is actually not her at all. But the book is also fascinating for what it reveals about the Harlem Renaissance in general. Highly recommended.
Higgenbotham, Evelyn Brooks. . Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1994. Read more about it orRighteous Discontent: The Women's Movement in the Black Baptist Church, 1880-1920 order at Amazon.com
Hull, Gloria T., Patricia Bell Scott and Barbara Smith, Eds. Feminist Press, 1986. Essays, bibliographies and more. Read more about it orAll the Women are White, All the Blacks Are Men, But Some of Us Are Brave: Black Women's Studies. order at Amazon.com
Jacobs, Harriet. Harvard University Press, 2000. Edited with annotation and authentification by Jean Fagan Yellin. Read more about it orIncidents in the Life of a Slave Girl. order at Amazon.com
First published in 1861, this book is much more than a narrative about slavery; it addresses many issues of gender as well. To escape the philandering intentions of her master, and to try to win freedom for her children, Harriet Jacobs spent seven years hidden away in an uninsulated garret, three feet high at its tallest point with almost no air or light, with only glimpses of her children to sustain her courage. Until the 1980's, this book was presumed by most scholars to be a work of fiction created by a white abolitionist, but Jean Yellin's groundbreaking research brought the real Harriet Jacobs to life. The book has been published many times since the 1960's, often in inexpensive paperback versions that are much cheaper than the edition I've linked. However, I'd recommend either this edition (which includes the short slave narrative published by Harriet's brother John, "A True Tale of Slavery") or an earlier edition edited by Yellin if you want the full historical background on the book itself.
. Bloomington and Indianapolis: University of Indiana Press, 1998. Read more about it orTerborg-Penn, Rosalyn . African-American Women in the Struggle for the Vote, 1850-1920 order at Amazon.com
Washington, DC: The Association, 1984. (This book is out of print. Try your Interlibrary Loan or one of the used book search services mentioned above.)Wesley, Charles H. The History of the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs: A Legacy of Service.
. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1992. Read more about it orYee, Shirley J. Black Women Abolitionists: A Study in Activism order at Amazon.com
 
Videos
Directed by Laura J. Lipson. Produced by Joan Sadoff, Dr. Robert Sadoff, Laura J. Lipson. Women Make Movies, 2003. 61 minutes, Color and B/W, Video, Documentary. /// Ordering info fromStanding on my Sisters' Shoulders. More information about the movie Women Make Movies
This award-winning documentary takes on the Civil Rights movement in Mississippi in the 1950's and 60's from the point of view of the courageous women who lived it ­ and emerged as its grassroots leaders. These women stood up and fought for the right to vote and the right to an equal education. They not only brought about change in Mississippi, but they altered the course of American history. While the historical footage is a stirring reminder, contemporary interviews of the activists show how active and vital many of these women still are. This film will have an impact on high school and college students who think of the Civil Rights Movement as ancient history, since these women could be their grandmothers.Highy Recommended!
was established in 1972 to address the under representation and misrepresentation of women in the media industry. Women Make Movies provides services to women film and video makers through their Distribution Service and the Production Assistance Program. You'll find several other excellent documentaries and films in their catalog. Women Make Movies
Written, directed and produced by Julie Dash. Geechee Girls, 1991. 113 minutes, Not Rated. Also: Dash, Julie. NY: Norton, 1992.Daughters of the Dust. Read Reviews at Amazon.com Daughters of the Dust: The Making of an African American Woman's Film. Amazon.com
A visual feast, this film defies traditional film narrative style to take the viewer into another time, place and culture. The time is 1902, the place is the Georgia Sea Islands where the Gullah people, descendents of slaves, have lived in relative isolation and therefore developed a rich culture deeply rooted in Africa. Some members of a large family are preparing to leave for the north. This film is for advanced students, and should not be shown without some preparation. I recommend you first visit the created by students at The College of New Jersey. Daughters of the Dust Project
(200 minutes)A Woman Called Moses Amazon.com
Starting with her "early years of midnight" on a Maryland plantation, this 1978 epic drama re-creates the life of Harriet Ross Tubman: her escape from slavery at age 29, her service on the Underground Railroad conducting hundreds of slaves to freedom, her perilous spying for the Union, and her post-war leadership of the suffragette movement. Based on the novel by Marcy Heidish, the program gives viewers a vivid portrait of this courageous and remarkable woman. Stars Cicely Tyson, Robert Hooks, and Will Geer. Narrated by Orson Welles. Grades 5 and up. Color. Total time: 200 minutes.
Kultar, 2000.Aida's Brothers and Sisters: Black Voices in Opera. Amazon .com
PBS website with related resources
A fascinating look at the history and present situation of African-American opera singers in America. Combines rare and contemporary footage of some of the greatest performers of the century and includes interview with many notable black singers, as well as musicologists, directors and historians. (This was the first time I saw complete footage of Marian Anderson singing "My Country 'Tis of Thee" at the Lincoln Memorial...it will send chills down your spine!)
(American Masters) Stanley Nelson, Director. PBS 2005Sweet Honey in the Rock: Raise Your VoiceNew! Purchase at PBS
This Grammy Award-winning, all-women, African-American a capella group has been spreading joy, hope, and inspiration through harmonious performances for the past 30 years. Capturing the complex sounds of spirituals, gospel hymns, African chants, and jazz, six accomplished singers combine their voices in heartfelt song. Rooted in the Civil Rights movement, Sweet Honey's music is stepped in the call for justice and messages of peace. More about the show at PBS
 