I I Snow Fence Pricing Snow Fence Specifications Snow Fence Pictures
Description- Snow fence is constructed from aspen and spruce wood slats which are woven together with 13-gauge galvanized wire. Each wood fence slat is approximately 3/8" thick, 1-1/2" wide, and 48" long and cut square on both ends. These wood fence slats are spaced approximately 2-1/2" apart making it an ideal snow barrier fence. Wooden fence slats are typically painted with a quality red oxide stain which holds up well outside in the elements. Snow is fence is also available in natural, unpainted. 13-gauge galvanized wire is used to hold wooden fence slats in place, five horizontals rows of two wires each, spaced approimately 10" apart vertically. Retaining wire is twisted 360a couple times between wood pickets actually binding into the wood slats and locking them in place. Snow fence is usually stood upright on steel fence posts which have been driven in the ground.
Snow fence is typically installed and removed seasonally to prevent snow from drifting onto residential and commercial driveways, highways, and even airport runways. Drifting snow can be dangerous and expensive to plow and remove.   Snow fence can decrease costs associated with maintaining property and improve property safety. Wood snow fence is significantly stronger than plastic fence and has a rustic appeal. Wooden snow fence may be used as a temporary removeable fence to create walkways and paths seasonally and removed easily later.Advantages -
The theory behind snow fence is really pretty simple. A properly designed and built snow fence will cause snow to drift down wind of it. An eddy will form behind the fence line whenever the wind passes over it, causing a rolling wind current that flows downward and to the back side of the fence. This formation will cause fast and slow places to develop in the wind which makes a drift form in front of the fence on the windward side. A well designed snow fence can both prevent snow from drifting where it is not wanted and retain snow where it is desired.Snow Fence Theory -
- Wood snow fence is typically installed as a temporary barricade. If you need a permanent fence, we suggest you consider other styles and types. The constant installation and removal of this style of fence can cause damage to wooded fence slats. Broken fence slats can become unsightly.Disadvantages
Although primarily installed to prevent snow drifting, wooden snow fence has been used in a variety of other applications such as farming and agricultural fence, temporary fence, landscapers fencing, greenhouse benching, construction fencing, crowd control fencing, roof shading, water collection and retention fencing, and animal containment.Uses of Wood Snow Fence - 
Temporary fence, construction fence, compost fencing, beach and sand fencing, greenhouse shelving, shade material (horizontally, on a pitch, or vertically), and various agricultural uses.Additional Uses:
      