The finalized is now available. South Dakota Bald Eagle Management Plan
Only 30 years ago, the bald eagle, our national symbol was near extinction. Shooting and environmental contamination, particularly from the pesticide DDT, led to widespread nest failure and death of adult birds. With the banning of DDT and the protection afforded under the Endangered Species Act, the bald eagle population has increased dramatically nationwide. The bald eagle was proposed for (removal from the federal Endangered Species List) in 1999, and the species is expected to be delisted within the next two years. The bald eagle is a state threatened species in South Dakota. delisting
South Dakota other eagle species is the goldeneagle, which nests in western South Dakota, often on buttes that overlook grasslands. Golden eagles are dark brown all over. They look similar to juvenile bald eagles, and the two can be easily confused.
For many years, the bald eagle was considered only an occasional visitor to South Dakota, and was not known to nest in the state at all. Today, the bald eagle is a year-round resident in South Dakota. Since the first nest was reported in 1994, there have been more than 40 nests located in the state. Nests are generally built in the largest tree in the area (generally a cottonwood in South Dakota) with a clear flight path to water. Most nests are along the major rivers, but an increasing number of nests are being constructed near ponds and other smaller water bodies. Additional unreported nests likely exist in the state. If you would like to report an eagle nest, click. here
For the past two years (2004 and 2005), SDGFP worked with the US Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Park Service, Nebraska Game and Parks, and a number of tribes to locate and monitor all of the active bald eagle nests in the state. In 2006, there were 46 active bald eagle nests in South Dakota, 35 of which successfully fledged young. In fact, many of these produced more than one eaglet. We documented an amazing 54 fledged eaglets spread across the state as shown in this table and map . Thanks to the many volunteers who have helped with this effort.
In winter, bald eagles congregate in areas where water remains ice-free and food is plentiful, often in the tailrace areas below the dams. Although they feed primarily on fish and wounded waterfowl, eagles are opportunistic feeders, and will scavenge on carcasses and other food as available. Stands of mature trees are very important for bald eagles in winter, as they spend much of the day perched in branches of large trees overhanging water waiting for an opportunity to feed. At night, especially in extreme weather, eagles roost communally in one or two large trees that provide some protection from the elements. Favorite night roost trees are often located within a large forested area that provides protection from severe cold and strong winter winds. Eagles are very sensitive to human disturbance, so winter roosting areas are often closed to certain activities in the winter months. Click for a map of wintering bald eagle sites in South Dakota. here
Questions or comments? Click . here
References:
Hansen, A.J., M.V. Stalmaster, & J.R. Newman. 1981. Habitat characteristics, function, and destruction of bald eagle communal roosts in Western Washington. pp 221-229. R.L. Knight, G.T. Allen, M.V. Stalmaster & C.W. Servheen, eds. 1980. Proc. Wash. Bald Eagle Symp. The Nature Conservancy, Seattle, WA.in
Martell, M. 1992. Bald eagle winter management guidelines. The Raptor Center, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN.
USFWS. 1983. Northern states Bald Eagle recovery plan. Department of the Interior. Denver, CO. 116 pp.
 