My Base Guide Home
Fort Leonard Wood | Arrival
Welcome to the U.S. Army Maneuver Support Center (MANSCEN) and Fort Leonard Wood, where all chemical, engineer and military police and transportation Soldiers, plus Marines, Airmen, Sailors and international students from allied nations receive training. Fort Leonard Wood, in the beautiful south central Missouri Ozarks, covers more than 62,911 acres, of which, 53,995 is used for training. The fort is located in Pulaski County, which has a population of nearly 45,000. Bordering the installation to the north are the towns of Waynesville and St. Robert, with an approximate combined population of 6,700. The post is two miles south of Interstate 44. St. Louis is a two hour drive to the east along Interstate 44 and Springfield, Mo., is a little more than an hour's drive to the west. A strong bond exists between Fort Leonard Wood and surrounding communities. Post residents participate in Chamber of Commerce activities, parades, festivals, speaking engagements, civic meetings and social gatherings to tell Missourians how much they consider themselves a part of the regional community, and that they want to be good neighbors. More than 100,000 people visit Fort Leonard Wood's Museums each year, and officials expect the number of visitors to increase as the facilities collection of historical artifacts continues to grow. One of the museum's unique projects is the restoration of a World War II company area that features a dining facility, barracks, company headquarters and officer quarters from the 1940s. The Army Family Covenant was signed on Fort Leonard Wood, Oct. 31, 2007 and an Army Community Covenant in the summer of 2008. The covenant serves as a pledge to show they are dedicated to helping families and making their quality of life as best as it can be, as well as recognize surrounding communities for their support. This covenant affirms that Army senior leadership is truly dedicated to the quality of life for the Soldiers. It's a great way to recognize the price a Soldier's family pays for what we expect our Soldiers to do. We recognize the commitment and increasing sacrifices that our families are making every day. We recognize the strength of our Soldiers comes from the strength of their Families. We are committed to providing Soldiers and Families a Quality of Life that is commensurate with their service. We are committed to providing our Families a strong, supportive environment where they can thrive. We are committed to building a partnership with Army families that enhances their strength and resilience.