Musical performances are abundant. In addition to other varied events throughout the year, the Parks & Recreation Department presents an annual “Concerts in the Park” series. Parents and friends fill school and church auditoriums for each of the numerous concerts and recitals that take place throughout the year.
In addition to a wonderful dance studio that continues to excel in competitions, Harrisonville is home to a wide variety of writers, musicians and artisans available for private instruction.
Residents are always proud to boast about our library. Harrisonville is home to the Cass County Public Library headquarters. Our facility alone houses 28,000 volumes; combined holdings at additional sites in Archie, Pleasant Hill, Belton, Garden City and Drexel reach over 200,000. Thousands more are available through inter-library loan. Our library provides citizens with computer and internet access, computer instruction, meeting facilities, book clubs, story time for children, and many educational programs.
Interested in researching your family or local history? The library offers free access to online genealogy databases. Additionally, the library is home to the Cass County Historical Society , the Cass County Genealogy Library and the Margaret Wade Archives - a wealth of information for history hounds. The upper level of the library is home to a gallery of local artwork exhibited daily by the Harrisonville Fine Art Association. The association also hosts art shows both in the spring and fall.
Our close proximity to the Kansas City metropolitan area allows for easy access to nearly every kind of cultural and entertainment opportunity one could hope for. A thirty-minute drive on the four-lane, divided U.S. 71 Highway is all it takes to enjoy the myrad of activities in the nation’s 31st largest city, including the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art , Starlight Theatre , 18th and Vine Historic Jazz District, Missouri Repertory Theatre and much more.
HARRISONVILLE PROVIDES RESIDENTS AND VISITORS ALIKE WITH A VARIETY OF OPPORTUNITIES TO ENRICH THE MIND AND FEED THE SOUL.