Paul's car import blog
A car import blog about import cars including Nissan Skylines, Toyota Supras, Nissan 180sx' and other high performance imported cars. Also modifications you can do to your car, importing your own car to Australia, and related topics like motor racing and flying.
Thursday, September 28, 2006
Can I get parts for it?
I am often asked if parts are easy to get for imported cars. The answer is yes and no. For all popular imports such as Nissan Skyline R32, R33 and R34, Nissan 180SX, Nissan 300ZX etc it is very easy to get new and used parts. Our local Nissan Dealer is incredibly friendly and will bend over backwards to give advice and order parts. I can also get anything second hand as I have many contacts that import container loads of half cuts, engines and body panels etc.
As far as Toyota parts go, they are also very helpful but I have found that a new Toyota Part is approx 30% more expensive than a comparable new Nissan part and they don't stock anywhere near the amount of new parts on the shelf as Nissan does. Having said that, if the vehicle has been imported for a few years like the Toyota Supra or Soarer, the parts are more available new and more importantly, second hand.
What I would be concerned about is buying a vehicle that hasn't been coming into Australia for a long period of time such as the Toyota Aristo. Even though Toyota would be able to supply all parts new for these cars, they would take 3 weeks to get from Japan, they would be expensive and it would be virtually impossible to buy anything second hand for at least the next couple of years. By then parts importers would have some demand for them and it would be viable to bring in a few container loads of parts. It just doesn't make commercial sense to import parts for cars unless there are quite a few on the road in Australia.
Mitsubishi are also not too easy for parts as the Mitsubishi dealers really don't want to help with anything that wasn't imported by them so I would also ask the import dealer if he can supply all parts, new & used, for the vehicle you are interested in.
So, before buying an imported vehicle, ask the dealer about the supply of new second hand parts and just don't rely on them telling you that second hand parts are no problem..... get them to prove it to you by guaranteeing it in writing or naming some parts importers so you can call to check out what they have and what sort of prices you will be paying.AND