 
AnnuityLibrary.com: Annuities Comparison
To make along story short, annuities guarantee a steady flow of income when you are no longer earning a salary. They helps you grow your savings faster with a contracted rate of interested and with their tax deferred features. Annuities can be of several types, and of all of them, fixed annuities prove to be the most reassuring. is an independent and reliable source of annuity information. You can have a neutral perspective of the comparison of different forms of annuities, their rates and returns, and their benefits and risks at . Annuities’ comparison can be a good guideline for deciding the right type of annuity, however, to decide which annuity, you need to do your homework well and calculate and compare the returns from each. www.AnnuityLibrary.com www.AnnuityLibrary.com
A fixed annuity guarantees a fixed rate of payment over a fixed time length on the amount you have invested in the annuity. During the accumulation phase as well as the annuitization phase, the amount of money that lies with the insurance company continues to grow at a fixed rate of interest.Fixed Annuities:
Fixed annuities can be of the life annuities type or fixed term type. Life annuities promise a regular pay-in till the death of the annuity owner. The cost and kind of life annuities is determined by the insurance components they offer. The amount of the pay in depends on the life expectancy of the annuity owner. Term certain annuities, on the other hand, guarantees an assured payment till a specified period. If the annuity owner dies before the end of the specified period, the insurance company need not pay the rest of the annuity's value. A few other types of term certain annuities, however, counter this problem and ensure that the benefit, in such situations, can be transferred to nominated beneficiaries.
A variable annuity promises immediate or deferred payments at certain intervals of time at a variable rate of interest, that depends on the market or the investment options you select. A variety of investment options are available with such annuities that include mutual funds investing in stocks, bonds, and money market instruments. It is better to tread carefully when it comes to variable returns and annuities because the risk factor is high and a lower amount of retune is not always guaranteed.Variable Annuities:
This form of annuities are also linked to the stock market, however, they guarantee a fixed amount below which your returns will never fall, even if the stock market fares badly. While this assures a guaranteed return to the annuitant, it also gives you higher returns when the stock market performs well. The manner and percentage of the gains you receive e this way is mentioned in the annuity contract.Equity-Indexed Annuities:
The main challenge while considering various annuity plans and deciding the most suitable one for you is to identify the benefits you need most and then compare the annuities that give you those benefits along with a good interest rate. For more information on how to use annuities for saving and insuring steady income during those retirement years, or call a t the toll-free number 1-800-998-4056. Annuity experts at the can advise on the complicated contracts, help you avoid unnecessary expenses, and grow your savings. Click here www.AnnuityLibrary.com www.AnnuityLibrary.com
 