[] edit History
In , the city was known as , but it became less important in the period after the construction of . Ancient Egypt Tamiat Hellenic Alexandria
The use , , and as entry ports to India and China. Abbasids Alexandria Damietta Aden Siraf [1]
Damietta was important in the 12th and 13th centuries during the time of the . In 1169, a fleet from the , with support from the , attacked the port, but it was defeated by . Crusades Kingdom of Jerusalem Byzantine Empire Saladin
During preparations for the in 1217, it was decided that Damietta should be the focus of attack. Control of Damietta meant control of the Nile, and from there the crusaders believed they would be able to conquer . From Egypt they could then attack and recapture . When and occupied by crusaders in 1219, arrived to peaceably negotiate with the Muslim ruler. In 1221 the Crusaders attempted to march to Cairo, but were destroyed by the combination of nature and Muslim defenses. Fifth Crusade Egypt Palestine Jerusalem the port was besieged Frisian Francis of Assisi
Damietta was also the object of the , led by . His fleet arrived there in 1249 and quickly captured the fort, though he refused to hand it over to the nominal king of Jerusalem, to whom it had been promised during the Fifth Crusade. However, Louis too was eventually captured and defeated and was forced to give up the city. Seventh Crusade Louis IX of France
Because of its importance to the Crusaders, the Sultan destroyed the city and rebuilt it with stronger fortifications a few kilometres from the river. Mamluk Baibars
[] edit Monuments
Amr Ibn Al-a'as Mosque (Al-Fateh) the 2nd mosque to be built in Egypt and Africa by the arabs after entering Egypt. It has been converted to a church twice during occupation by the crusaders and son was Baptised by vice of the Pope in this Mosque. Louis IX of France Jean Tristan
Al-Matbuly Mosque dating to Mamluk era.
Al-Maainy Mosque dating to Al-Naser Mohammed Ibn Qalawon regin.
Al-Bahr Mosque dating to Ottmon rule era.
Al--Hadidy Mosque in Faraskour 200 years old.
Tabiet Ahmed Urabi, ruins of Damietta Fort at Ezbet El-Borg.
Al-Radwaniya Mosque dating to Mamluk era.
The Old Bridge " Elkobri Elqadeem" dating to early 1900s.
Souk Al-Hesba, the old dowm town, dating to Abbasi rule era.
[] edit Damietta today
Today there is a canal connecting it to the , which has made it an important port once again. The modern city has a population of about 1,093,580 (2006). It contains the (Liquefied Natural Gas) plant, which will ultimately have a capacity of 9.6 million ton/year through two trains. The plant is owned by Segas, a joint venture of the Spanish utility (40%), Italian oil company (40%) and the Egyptian companies EGAS and EGPC (10% each). The plant is unusual since it is not supplied from a dedicated field, but is supplied with gas from the Egyptian grid. Nile SEGAS LNG Uni n Fenosa Eni