Braun Braun IRT 4020 ThermoScan Ear Thermometer
EDITORIAL REVIEWS
If you are the parent of one of the millions of children with worry and anxiety: help is on the way. Anxiety is the number one mental health challenge facing our children today. Fortunately, there is good news for these kids and the parents who suffer along with them - anxiety disorders are also the most treatable mental health condition. With the powerful cognitive-behavioral treatments now available, there has never been more hope for anxious children's bright future.
Product Description
Treatment is not about trying to cajole or talk kids out of their fears; it's about teaching them to see worry as a problem to be solved. Translating cutting-edge techniques into down-to-earth, empathic, user-friendly steps, equips parents, teachers and therapists with the information they need to recognize the red flags of anxiety in children and how they can systematically overcome the obstacles that anxiety imposes.Freeing Your Child from Anxiety
Empowering and insightful, , gives children - from preschool to high school - the action plan and the tools to take charge, unplug from anxiety, and plug into sound, realistic thinking. Learning the lessons from parents, children can reduce anxiety and even prevent anxiety disorders from taking hold.Freeing Your Child from Anxiety
Part One includes a primer on causes and mechanisms of transmission of anxiety messages in the brain - the how, when and where of seeking help for your child - a chapter on the worry tricks the brain can play, and finally the five step 'Master Plan' for overcoming anxiety.
Part Two goes in depth, with separate chapters for each anxiety subtype: panic, separation anxiety, social anxiety, generalized worry, phobias, trauma, and obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Also included is a chapter on habit behaviors and conditions which are typically exacerbated by stress, tics and trichotillomania.
Part Three expands the focus to anxious children at school, and with friends and siblings. Because nighttime can be a very anxious time, a chapter on managing nighttime fears and sleep difficulties is included.
Anxious children are especially sensitive to real life stress such as coping with illness, death, crime, and terrorism. Strategies for how to constructively discuss these difficult topics are included in a separate chapter.
(Average Customer Rating: 5.0 based on 27 reviews)
CUSTOMER REVIEWS
   This book took away the helpless feeling I was having dealing wih my daughter's anxiety. It gave me practical strategies to use to help her conquer her worries and anxieties. This book gave us our daughter back.
Freeing your child from anxiety.
October 24, 2008
   This book break down the root of anxiety and provides real life examples on how to help your children work through their aniexty. The book is organized in a way that the information is easy to read.
Tangible help
October 05, 2008
   This book has many tangible solutions and specific excercises to try with your child. Very helpful and easy to understand.
Terrific, concise, book.
September 20, 2008
   This is a great book for parents trying to help an anxious child. It is written in a straightforward way, without a lot of the fluff and extra verbiage that other, similar books include. The author includes realistic-seeming examples and vignettes, but not so many that they overwhelm the content. A very useful resource.
Excellent resource
March 12, 2008
   this book is very informational and organized well. i like that you can just go to the sections you are interested in. they also have very good techniques for the kids (and adults) to try. highly recommended!
Freeing Your Child From Anxiety
November 07, 2007
SIMILAR PRODUCTS