submission guidelines
(You can preview and edit on the next page) Recent Tattoo Submissions
Click below to see view pictures of tattoos from site visitors, rate their ink and read comments from others about your tattoos.
  Japanese or Chinese fish (carp and Koi ), in color and for back. Big one. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Koi Fish Tattoo
  Cherry Blossoms with Kanji writing saying, Small, Fire & Dignify. Done by Damien at Big Joe's on Central Avenue, Yonkers, NY. Had it done in December 2006.... Kanji Tattoo With Floral Designs
  Angel wings, cross, banner took around 3 hours. Tattoo artist was Joel from Ink Assassins in Erie, PA. Greatest thing I have ever done a long with the ... Angel Wings & Cross Tattoo
  This is my first tattoo and it took 4 hours for the outline... i need to wait for 2 weeks for the next session and that is, putting some vibrant colors.... Traditional Japanese
  I wanted a really girly tattoo on my calf so I opted for a fairy. It took in total about 2 hours. It was the least painful tattoo I have had and I read ... Girly Fairy Tattoo
  This is kind of a inside joke between myself and a friend of mine who is black! Since I'm white I'm the "broke ass cracka" aka the poor white girl! He ... Broken Cracker Tattoo
  ONE FOR MY GIRLFRIEND AND SON. NEEDS TO BE TOUCHED UP BUT THIS WAS WHEN IT WAS MAD FRESH, HOURS OLD. PEACE, DAIME1: WWW.HYBRIDMOMENTSPIERCING.COM Popular ... Classic Old School Tattoo
  Dragon in progress on chest, took around 2 hours and was done by John Hewey at East Coast Tattoos in Alsford Nova Scotia Canada.. Popular Tattoo ... Black and grey
  Its a lily for my daughter. Her name is Lilly and I got it on her 3rd b-day. It took a lil less then 5 hours. The artist is Tim Martin at Brainstorm Tattoo ... Lily Tattoo Design
  Its a half sun half moon. It represents my brother and me. We are like night and day. I got it at Extreme Ink in Granite City, Illinois. The artist was ... Sun / Moon Tattoo
  It reads "OM NAMAH SHIVAY" in Sanskrit. It basically means I'm remembering Lord Shiva and taking solace in this mantra. Well, I got it done for the simple ... Lettering in Sanskrit
  Koi carp, waves and a traditional Japanese lotus flower. Tattoo done by Lee Marshall at 'Next Generation Tattoos' - Stony Stratford, Milton Keynes, England.... Japanese Tattoo
  my tattoo is a butterfly which has blue and green, pink and white on it! :D i love it! but i want more :P Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Butterfly Tattoo
  The tattoo took about 20 mins and it was my first one. It represents the bohemian ideals, which I believe strongly in. Tattoo Writing
  Tattoo is still in the workings... Norse Tattoo
  Its a side tattoo of stars it took about and hour and the artist was amazing ... Star Tattoos
  Approximately 10 mins to complete, another custom Piece by Searay (myself) Heart With Tribal Rose Tattoo
  The Arabic on my arm translates into "No remorse" this was when i was in the army and before i went to Iraq. it took about an hour to complete but it has ... Arabic
  Back tattoo I did for a friend Nick Easton. I think it came out pretty good. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Black & Gray Skull Back Tattoo
  Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic tattoos , heart ... Fire Dog Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took just under 2 hours,im really in to the traditional colours and the gypsy ladies. i got it in 'Elemental' tattoo parlour in Plymouth. i would recommend ... Traditional Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo took about 30 minutes x Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Cute Bow Tattoo
  Not rated yet Its Latin and says Nulli Secundus which translates as second to none! It was done by a local artist with a great reputation. Check out his site (Borderline ... Mexican Graffiti Art Tattoo
  Not rated yet This tattoo is done by Marshell at 'Third Eye Tattoo' in Fitzroy North Melbourne. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Horror Inspired Tattoo
  Not rated yet I got my tattoo at 'Lucky 13' tattoo shop in Coos Bay Oregon. After extensive research on Maori style tattoos I finally I found a design i wanted. The ... Maori Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is my first tattoo and it took 4 hours .Tattoo artist was Sara.It reads "OM". Its symbol Hindu... It basically means I'm remembering Lord Shiva. Popular ... Om Symbol Tattoo
  Not rated yet My first tattoo, it took 2 hours to complete with a bit of touch up 4 weeks later. Very pleased, will be adding to it soon with a few oriental flowers.... Traditional Peacock Feather Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo is made just last week... it is a elvish lettering, i got it from the lord of the rings and the girl it is made by Brandon Boyd of 'Incubus'.. Popular ... Elvish Tattoo
  Not rated yet Snowflakes falling down my leg. Took about 1 1/2 hrs. to do. Got it done in State College, Pa at Ink Inc. done by Charlie! There are more on my leg than ... Unique Snowflakes Tattoo
  Not rated yet This was my first tattoo. I'm sorry for the bad picture!! it took 10 hours and was done by Lee Holman at Living Art in Plymouth. i have started to extend ... Polynesian Tribal Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took about one hour to do. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Butterfly & Tribal on Lower Back
  Not rated yet 10CM.. cute Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic ... Tribal Tattoo
  Not rated yet 2 time to finish...finish in MJC by my friend simpok the tattoo man. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Koi Fish
  Not rated yet Family between south island and north island. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic ... Ta Moko
  Not rated yet this tat is very special to me. my true love drew it for me so i had to have it on me! it took 3 hrs to do!!! done by angelo @ ink smith n rogers in jackxonville ... Angel Tattoo
  Not rated yet FACE OF JESUS ON THE CROSS...WAS DONE BY CHRISTOPHER.A TIME TAKEN 3 HRS.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Jesus Tattoo
  Not rated yet FACE OF JESUS ON THE CROSS...WAS DONE BY CHRISTOPHER.A TIME TAKEN 3 HRS.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Jesus Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took a few months on and off to design, which I did myself. The design is an abstract flower, the middle representing femininity and the out arms representing ... Tribal-ish Tattoo
  Not rated yet Took half a day with two 10min breaks, done by family friend justin at 'Westcoast Tattoos' just outa perth, i think one of the best freehand artists here.... Maori Style Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took 3 hours... Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos ... Warrior Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took 3 hours .. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos ... Warrior Tattoo
  Not rated yet This tattoo took me about 3 years to fully design and decide on, none of it came from a book was drawn free hand by myself and tattooed at St. John's Ink,... Shield Tattoo With Map
  Not rated yet This is my Fav tattoo done my my good friend Brett Bararington @ Wildfire Tattoos. It took 4 sittings and around 24 hours all up. It only tickled a little ... Leg Wave Over Tribal Tattoo
  Not rated yet The wolfman. Took the dude two and a half hours. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic ... Portrait Tattoo
  Not rated yet It's an old rugged cross it has a ribbon going through it and it has one angel wing. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray ... Cross Tattoo With Angel Wing
  Not rated yet It took four hours. This is a pinup chick from the 60's, resembling all those lovely classic ladies. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Black and White Pinup Girl Tattoo
  Not rated yet BUTTERFLYS FLOWERS MY EVIL HEART BEFOR COLORED IN Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic ... Lovely Lady Showing Her Tattoos
  Not rated yet UNIQUE SIDEFEW BUTTERFLY DONE BY ALEX FROM HEIDELBERG TOOK ABOUT 20 min EACH Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Forever Friends Butterfly Tattoos
  Not rated yet If your into Magick this is for you. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos ... Single Needle Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo is of a Japanese hanya mask, the tattoo took one and a half hours to complete, its got a red face black hair, green and white eyes a blue tongue ... Japanese Hanya Mask Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is a tattoo i did for my dad. It took 2 hours. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic ... Celtic Tattoo
  Not rated yet Memorial tattoo for twin niece and nephew whom passed away. Upper Koi is Niece (passed first) and lower is Nephew. It's about the pain, struggle, road ... Large Japanese Koi Tattoo
  Not rated yet Its an Anubis and it was done by Sean Wilson. Think it took about an hr and half maybe! Its just one of 4 Egyptian tattoos I have. Popular Tattoo ... Egyptian Tattoo
  Not rated yet Its an Anubis and it was done by Sean Wilson. Think it took about an hr and half maybe! Its just one of 4 Egyptian tattoos I have. Popular Tattoo ... Egyptian Tattoo
  Not rated yet 10 minutes. M.O.B. Money Over Bitches Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos ... Arm Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is my first tattoo and my very own design. It says Music with a red heart on the side showing my love to music and its placed on my left side of ... I Love Music Tattoo
  Not rated yet Its an icthus symbol meaning Jesus Christ, son of God, the Savior. I had it done at Wicked Ink in Knoxville, Tn. It took probably about 15 minutes, and ... Icthus Symbol Tattoo
  Not rated yet Amy Brown - Bashful 4hrs Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos ... Bashful Fairy Tattoo
  Not rated yet It took half an hour and was a cover up job from a tattoo i had done when i was 13... Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray ... Stars Tattooed on Chicks Hip
  Not rated yet it took like 4 1/2 hrs nothin but solid work it felt nice but look good.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Demonic Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is my Legend of zelda tattoo, it took 2 hours. It cost me a whole freakin $160, But dammit it was worth it! Popular Tattoo Designs angel ... Video Game Tattoo
  Not rated yet I think it's ok, it took 9 hours. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Japanese and Tribal Tattoo
  Not rated yet Rob Zombie, three hours! The artist is DUB from DIVINITY TATTOO in Scottsdale Arizona. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray ... Rob Zombie Tattoo
  Not rated yet i like my own design.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos ... Tribal Tattoo on Upper Arm
  Not rated yet i like this.. this is my first tattoo.. spider.. its cool.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Tarantula Tattoo
  Not rated yet Lower back tattoo of my zodiac sign Capricorn...2 1/2 inches high 1 inch wide. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Zodiac Sign Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is my first tattoo courtesy of Jesus of Tony's Tattoo here in Aruba... Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Traditional Japanese Koi Tattoo
  Not rated yet This was done by Phil at Diversity in Las Vegas It took almost 2 hours..he did a great job.. I'm proud of it, want more in the future, but it is a little ... Lotus Flower Tattoo on Lower Back
  Not rated yet This tattoo took about 2 hours. It was done by Elisha in ACES tattoo Reno NV. It is my second tattoo.. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Day of the Dead Skull Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo took about an hr and a half. I got it done at WESTSYDE INK in Sydney. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Hot Dragon Tattoo
  Not rated yet Done at Fu's Custom Tattoo's in Charlotte, NC. Took 3 1/2 hours. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Patriotic Tattoo
  Not rated yet Done myself it took me 2 hours I took my time I was a little buzzed off jack 'n' coke but it looks good. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Devil Tattoo
  Not rated yet My Tattoo took about an hour and a half..It is located between my shoulder blades. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray ... Flower Tattoo
  Not rated yet They are stars down my side. It took about 4 hours for the outline and about 1 for the color. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black ... Sexy Stars Tattooed on Girl
  Not rated yet This is what I wanted, no black lines in the trees and leaves, and imagine to stick out, took about an hour and a half, on the small of my back. done ... Freehand Tattoo on Back
  Not rated yet It took abut 17 hrs over the course of a year. could have had it done faster but it hurt. Artist was my brother in-law Bart. I'm in the works of a sleeve ... Large Wings and Cross Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is a rose that is still not complete...it was done by Buzz Baily in Billings Montana. Took about half hour to an hour.. Popular Tattoo Designs ... Rose Tattoo
  Not rated yet Good for just year? Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos ... Cover Up Old School Tattoo
  Not rated yet Work done by Gumby of Kaotic Creationz Skin Factory in Aurora, IL. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Amy Brown Fairy Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is a pic of my flower tattoo on my right foot, i'm not quite sure how long it took but it was finished quicker than i expected, i had it done at 'Eclipse ... Flower Tattoo on Foot
  Not rated yet Hey, just wanted to throw some more traditional style tattoos at ya. hope ya like it. -Ross Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black ... Irish Coat of Arms Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo is from my hip to my upper ribs. It was done by KING TAT TODD in Byson City NC. It is a tree with purple flowers. Popular Tattoo Designs ... Tree Tattoo Design
  Not rated yet Australian pride, southern cross, 'Borderline Tattoo' Gold Coast, Australia Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos ... Southern Cross Tattoo Design
  Not rated yet A dragon and a koi-fish all inside my tribal tattoos. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos ... Tribal Tattoo Incorporating Koi and Dragon
  Not rated yet i drew it ... Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic ... Skull Tattoo
  Not rated yet 2 hour by Julie Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic ... Tribal Lion Tattoo Design
  Not rated yet I did this tattoo on my own leg. It took about 4 hours to do. Going across the shin was pretty painful. I used 5 rounds for the ouline, and 9 magnum for ... Traditional Tattoo
  Not rated yet On forearm .. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic ... Eye Tattoo
  Not rated yet Its writin in LA gang script. Respect .. took aprox. 1 hour, done by Mike Gentry of Tattoo City in Monroe, OH. Popular Tattoo Designs angel ... Black and White Gang Tattoo
  Not rated yet This is just the back obviously. I have about twelve hours in the whole thing. Most of it was done at Big Brain studios in Omaha NE. Hey Smitty and the ... Many styles
  Not rated yet It is an I Ching, took 3.5 hrs, The artist? Well she ROCKS!!! Sweet Cicely at Cyclops Tattoo in San Francisco .. Popular Tattoo Designs angel ... Eastern Inspired Tattoo
  Not rated yet I got this done at 'Psycho Tattoo' in Marietta , GA the tattoo artist was named Robby. He was the most experienced guy with color at the time. It took ... Occult Tattoos
  Not rated yet I have a sleeve tattoo still in progress with stars, flames, spiders, staffs, writing, and a snake from wrist to shoulder inked in black and white with ... Full Sleeve Tattoo in Progress
  Not rated yet I just have one tattoo and it took me three months to decide on it. I sketched it over plenty of times and kept reconsidering the color. Finally I decided ... Cool Script Tattoos on Chick's Hip
  Not rated yet It took around 5 hours to finish it, had it done locally by a guy who was really good, showed him a design I liked and he did it free hand. Really happy ... Tribal Tattoo Design on Upper Arm
  Not rated yet My first one to date, and this tree with four blossoms took about two and a half hours to complete. It is placed in between my shoulder blades in the center ... Blossom Tree Tattoo Design
  Not rated yet Took an hour and a half. In the middle is 2 lacrosse sticks. Tribal
  Not rated yet The tattoo took about 3hrs Tattoo of a Dice With Flames
  Not rated yet S&M B&D, for those into the life style. Custom work. Done by Red Ass Tattoos B&D Tattoo
  Not rated yet I only have one tattoo, for now, it's of a butterfly on the back of my neck. It took about an hour to do. I got my tat done at Living Canvas in Winter ... Butterfly/Tribal Tattoo
Click Below for More Tattoo Designs