History of African music
History of Arabic music
Timeline of trends in music Music history Music history is the study of how music has evolved over time. It is somewhat related to the fields of musicology and ethnomusicology. Origins The origin of music are lost deep in prehistoric times. Probably the earliest forms of music were songs, possibl
Politics
Finance
Topics: Music History Instruments Rhythm Time Archeological Western...
Music of India The music of India includes multiples varieties of folk and pop music, along with Carnatic and Hindustani classical music. India's classical music tradition has a history spanning millenia and, developed over several eras, remains fundamental to the lives
Music Music often an art/ entertainment, is a total social fact whose definitions vary according to era and culture," according to Jean Molino. 1 It is often contrasted with noise. According to musicologist Jean-Jacques Nattiez: "The border between music and no
Musical instrument A musical instrument is a device that has been constructed or modified with the purpose of making music. In principle, anything that somehow produces sound can serve as a musical instrument, but the expression is reserved generally to items that have that
Musical film A musical film belongs to a film genre that features songs, sung by the actors, interwoven into the narrative. The songs are usually used to advance the plot or develop the film's characters. A sub-genre of the musical is the musical comedy, which include
Musical mode This article is about mode, the musical concept. For other meanings of mode, see Mode. Modes In music, a mode is an ordered series of musical intervals, which, along with the key or tonic define the pitches. However, mode is usually applied only to the sp
Music critic A music critic is someone who reviews music, songs and albums, and writes about them. A music critic may also write entire books analyzing music styles and discussing music history. Influential music critics and writers include: Lester Bangs Peter Guralni