Free Bridal Shower Games
From LoveToKnow Weddings
Free shower games are easily found online, in library books or even by using your own imagination. While not mandatory, games are a great way to break the ice and elevate the mood of your event. Everyone appreciates some silliness and frivolity once in a while. Free bridal shower games are a great way to let go for a while.
[] edit
Ice Breakers
Ice breaker games are played at the very beginning of the shower, after all the guests arrive. Some hostesses will start them as a way to keep the guests entertained until the guest of honor arrives. Ice breakers are designed to get the revelry flowing and help those guests who don't know anyone to feel more at ease. Try these ideas for ice breakers
Romantic Couples: Hand each guest a sheet with a list of famous couples  except only half of each couple is listed. The shower guests have to fill in the blanks. For instance, Mickey and ___ or Bonnie and ____. Allow three to five minutes for the forms to be filled out. When time is called, go over the answers. The guest with the most correct answers wins a prize.
Tell Us Something About You: Have guests sit in a circle. Each guest should say her name, where she lives, and one interesting bit about herself. The person next to her has to give her information and repeat the details of all the people who went before. By the time guests are finished everyone should know each other's names.
[] edit
Don't Say it!
When your guests arrive give them each five coins (or five of something else). Instruct them not to say the word "wedding" or the groom's name. Every time someone says one of these words, take away one coin. The person with the most coins at the end of the shower wins a prize.
How Well Do We Know the Bride?
Write up a list of questions regarding the bride's personal taste. Some examples include:
What was the bride's first job?
What is the bride's favorite color?
What is the bride's favorite song?
What kind of music does the bride like to listen to?
What color are the bride's eyes?
What is the bride's favorite television show?
What is the bride's favorite movie?
What is the bride's favorite book?
How did the bride and groom meet?
What is the bride's shoe size?
What color is the bride's bathroom?
Give each guest a copy of the list. The guest with the most correct answers wins a prize.
[] edit
Bridal Shower Word Scramble
Give each guest a sheet of paper with a bunch of wedding words that are scrambled so they're unrecognizable. Set the timer for ten minutes. The person with the most unscrambled words when time is up wins a prize.
Where to Find Free Bridal Shower Games
has a large list. You're sure to find several great ideas here. Bridal Shower Games
has a great list plus printable games. BrideBingo.com
offers games for both bridal and baby showers. The Rosemary Company
offers lists of free bridal shower games. Abbee.com