is the component of .Economic liberalism economic classical liberalism
Theories in support of economic liberalism were developed in the , and believed to be first fully formulated by which advocates minimal interference by government in the economy, though it does not necessarily oppose the state's provision of a few basic with what constitutes public goods originally being seen as very limited in scope. These theories began in the eighteenth century with the then-startling claim that if everyone is left to their own economic devices instead of being controlled by the state, then the result would be a harmonious and more equal society of ever-increasing prosperity. This underpinned the move towards a economic system in the late 18th century, and the subsequent demise of the system. Enlightenment Adam Smith public goods [1] [2] capitalist mercantilist
Private and individual form the basis of liberalism. The early theory was based on the assumption that the economic actions of individuals are largely based on self-interest, () and that allowing them to act without any restrictions will produce the best results, () provided that at least minimum standards of public information and justice exist, e.g., no-one should be allowed to coerce or steal. property contracts invisible hand spontaneous order
While economic liberalism favors markets unfettered by the government, it maintains that the state has a legitimate role in providing . For instance, Adam Smith argued that the state has a role in providing roads, canals, schools and bridges that cannot be efficiently implemented by private entities. However, he preferred that these goods should be paid proportionally to their consumption (e.g. putting a ). In addition, he advocated to bring about free trade, and and to encourage innovation. public goods [3] toll retaliatory tariffs copyrights patents [3]
Initially, the economic liberalism had to contend with the supporters of privileges for the wealthy, traditions and the rights of to run national economies in their own personal interests. By the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th, these were largely defeated. feudal aristocratic kings
In the mid-19th century, followed the tradition of economic liberalism, which included increased state control such as the provision and regulation of railroads. The provided the development of the . Abraham Lincoln Whig Pacific Railway Acts First Transcontinental Railroad [4]