Featured Websites
Michigan Attractions
Porcupine Mountains encompass 60,000 acres with native hemlock forests and towering pines and sturdy birches. Its terrain is rugged and wild and it sits at the shore of Lake Superior. Many rivers teeming with various species of trout cut through these forests and waterfalls are a common sight. This state park got its name from the Ojibwa Indians, who named the 'small mountains' so because, with their tall trees, they looked like crouched porcupines. During the spring and summer months, campers have their choice of two campgrounds, the Union Bay and Presque Isle. The Presque Isle campground is very close to some impressive waterfalls. The Union Bay is the largest campground and is the only one that offers electricity and showers....
Porcupine Mountains Wilderness State Park is located at the Western corner of the Northern Peninsula of Michigan. It is the largest state park in that state and is a true gem for a great family vacation. Accessible during all seasons of the year, this state park has many things to offer for a family looking for adventure in the great outdoors.Porcupine Mountains
read more about Porcupine Mountains
Museums. When was the last time you visited a museum? Michigan has wonderful world-class Museums from art to science to history. Standouts include the Detroit Institute of Art (did you know that it is the fifth-largest fine arts museum in the country?), and the Grand Rapids Art Museum. The Detroit Science Center is geared to kids, and offers a host of family-friendly exhibits and galleries, not to mention the astonishing sensory experience of the museum's IMAX dome theater. Your kids will thank you. Michigan.org is a great resource for finding these museums.Things to Do In Michigan
2. Lighthouses. Michigan has more lighthouses than any other state. Bordered by the Great Lakes, the sheer multitude of these historic gems mean they have become an icon for our state, and their tall, slender columns grace everything from our shorelines to picturesque wall calendars. These lighthouses - many of which have been renovated and some which have become public museums - continue to educate and serve as a reminder of our state's grand maritime history. Don't miss the opportunity to visit them! If nothing else, you and your family will be treated to nature's grand brushstrokes of a sweeping, maritime landscape.
3. Beaches. With our abundant coastline, beaches are everywhere in Michigan and easy to love during the humid, late summer months. Some beaches are better than others, and so it's important to pick the right one. From personal experience, southwest Michigan and northwest Michigan truly offers some of the best beach experiences. South Haven (the magnificent century-old lighthouse still stands at the end of south pier), Grand Haven, St. Joseph, and the Traverse City / Leland areas are home to remarkable beaches. Long stretches of soft, white sand, clean, blue water for swimming and boating, and quaint, lively towns brimming with restaurants, shops, and ice cream parlors make these required destinations!...read more about Things to do in Michigan
Detroit:
One must-see attraction is the Henry Ford, 20900 Oakwood Blvd., Dearborn, which encompasses the Henry Ford Museum, Greenfield Village and an IMAX theater. Visitors to the Henry Ford Museum can see vehicles where history was made, like the car President Kennedy was assassinated in and the bus on which Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat. There are also displays of airplanes, old household appliances and more.Henry Ford Museum
Greenfield Village is designed to resemble a small village of the late 1800s with farms, shops, and people in historical costume. Historical buildings like Thomas Edison workshop have been relocated to the Village. Kids will enjoy taking the steam engine around the complex, riding the carousel or going for a spin in a restored Model T.Greenfield Village
Tour Fairlane, the beautiful home of Henry Ford located on the campus of the University of Michigan Dearborn. Even more impressive is his son mansion, the Edsel and Eleanor Ford home located in Grosse Pointe. Don miss the layhousethat belonged to the Fordsyoung daughter, and brick structure built in the 1930s complete with electricity and running water...Tour Fairlane
11 Excellent Public Golf Courses
Michigan Hiking
Michigan hiking trails contain some of the top spots for hiking such as the Sleeping Bear Dunes near Traverse City and Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore in the UP, but the possibilities are not limited to that. So lace up your boots, and off you go. If you're just looking for that half day with the kids or to add a hike to your already filled vacation itinerary, you need not stress about finding the perfect Michigan hiking fit. You'll find that the State and National Parks dotted throughout Michigan have all kinds of trails to choose from....... read more