The first officially recorded game of in US history took place in Hoboken in 1846 between and at . baseball [23] Knickerbocker Club New York Nine Elysian Fields
In 1845, the , which had been founded by Alexander Cartwright, began using to play due to the lack of suitable grounds on . Team members included players of the St George's Cricket Club, the brothers Harry and George Wright, and Henry Chadwick, the English-born journalist who coined the term "America's Pastime". Knickerbocker Club Elysian Fields baseball Manhattan [24]
By the 1850s, several -based members of the were using the grounds as their home field while St George's continued to organize international matches between Canada, England and the United States at the same venue. In 1859, Jack Parr's All England Eleven of professional cricketers played the United States XXII at Hoboken, easily defeating the local competition. Sam Wright and his sons Harry and George Wright played on the defeated United States team-a loss which inadvertently encouraged local players to take up baseball. Henry Chadwick believed that baseball and not cricket should become America's pastime after the game drawing the conclusion that amateur American players did not have the leisure time required to develop cricket skills to the high technical level required of professional players. Harry and George Wright then became two of America's first professional baseball players when Aaron Champion raised funds to found the Cincinnati Red Stockings in 1869. Manhattan National Association of Base Ball Players
In 1865 the grounds hosted a championship match between the of and the of that was attended by an estimated 20,000 fans and captured in the "The American National Game of Base Ball". Mutual Club New York Atlantic Club Brooklyn Currier & Ives lithograph
With the construction of two significant baseball parks enclosed by fences in , enabling promoters there to charge admission to games, the prominence of diminished. In 1868 the leading club, , shifted its home games to the in . In 1880, the founders of the and finally succeeded in siting a ballpark in Manhattan that became known as the . Brooklyn Elysian Fields Manhattan Mutual Union Grounds Brooklyn New York Metropolitans New York Giants Polo Grounds
[] edit "Heaven, Hell or Hoboken"
When the USA decided to enter World War I the piers in Hoboken (and New Orleans) were taken under . Federal control of the port and anti-German sentiment led to part of the city being placed under martial law, and many Germans were forcibly moved to or left the city altogether. Hoboken became the major point of embarkation and more than three million soldiers, known as "", passed through the city. Their hope for an early return led to 's slogan, ", or Hoboken... by ." Hamburg-American Line eminent domain Ellis Island doughboys General Pershing Heaven Hell Christmas
[] edit Interwar years
Following the war, , mostly stemming from the port city of , became the city's major ethnic group, with the also having a strong presence. While the city experienced the Depression, jobs in the ships yards and factories were still available, and the "tenements" were full. Middle-European Jews, mostly German-speaking, also made their way to the city and established small businesses. The was established on , . The was completed in 1927 and the in (1937), allowing for easier vehicular travel between New Jersey and , bypassing the waterfront. Italians Adriatic Molfetta Irish Port Authority of New York and New Jersey April 30 1921 Holland Tunnel Lincoln Tunnel New York City
[] edit Post-World War II
The war provided a shot in the arm for Hoboken as the many industries located in the city were crucial to the war effort. As men went off to battle, more women were hired in the factories, some (most notably, ), offering classes and other incentives to them. Though some returning service men took advantage of GI housing bills, many with strong ethnic and familial ties chose to stay in town. During the fifties, the economy was still driven by , , , and and companies with big plants still not inclined to invest in huge infrastructure elsewhere. Unions were powerful and the pay was good. Todd Shipyards Todd Shipyards Maxwell House Lipton Tea Hostess Bethlehem Steel
By the sixties, though, things began to disintegrate: turn-of-the century housing started to look shabby and feel crowded, shipbuilding was cheaper overseas, and single-story plants surrounded by parking lots made manufacturing and distribution more economical than old brick buildings on congested urban streets. The city appeared to be in the throes of inexorable decline as industries sought (what had been) greener pastures, port operations shifted to larger facilities on , and the car, truck and plane displaced the railroad and ship as the transportation modes of choice in the United States. Many Hobokenites headed to the suburbs, often the close-by ones in and Counties, and real-estate values declined. Hoboken sank from its earlier incarnation as a lively port town into a rundown condition and was often included in lists with other New Jersey cities experiencing the same phenomenon, such as , , , and neighboring . Newark Bay Bergen Passaic Paterson Elizabeth Camden Jersey City
The old economic underpinnings were gone and nothing new seemed to be on the horizon. Attempts were made to stabilize the population by demolishing the so-called slums along River Street and build subsidized middle-income housing at Marineview Plaza, and in midtown, at Church Towers. Heaps of long uncollected garbage and roving packs of semi-wild dogs were not uncommon sights. Though the city had seen better days, Hoboken was never abandoned. New infusions of immigrants, most notably , kept the storefronts open with small businesses and housing stock from being abandoned, but there wasn't much work to be had. Washington Street, commonly called "the avenue", was never boarded up, and the tightly-knit neighborhoods remained home to many who were still proud of their city. Stevens stayed a premiere technology school, Maxwell House kept chugging away, and Bethlehem Steel still housed sailors who were dry-docked on its piers. Italian-Americans and other came back to the "old neighborhood" to shop for delicatessen. Some streets were "iffy", but most were not pulled in at night. [25] Puerto Ricans
[] edit On the Waterfront
The waterfront defined Hoboken as an archetypal port town and powered its economy from the mid-19th to mid-20th century, by which time it had become essentially industrial (and mostly inaccessible to the general public). The large production plants of and , and the of dominated the northern portion for many years. The southern portion (which had been a US base of the ) was seized by the federal government under at outbreak of , after which it became (with the rest of the Hudson County) a major East Coast cargo-shipping port. , consistently listed among the five best American films ever, was shot in Hoboken, dramatically highlighting the rough and tumble lives of and the infiltration of unions by organized crime. Lipton Tea Maxwell House drydocks Bethlehem Steel Hamburg-American Line eminent domain World War I On the Waterfront longshoremen
With the construction of the system and shipping facilities (particularly at ), the docks became obsolete, and by the 1970s were more or less abandoned. A large swathe of River Street, known as the for its taverns and boarding houses (which had been home for many dockworkers, sailors, merchant marines, and other seamen) was leveled as part of an project. Though control of the confiscated area had been returned to the city in the 1950s, complex lease agreements with the gave it little influence on its management. In the 1980s, the waterfront dominated Hoboken politics, with various civic groups and the city government engaging in sometimes nasty, sometimes absurd politics and court cases. By the 1990s, agreements were made with the , various levels of government, Hoboken citizens, and private developers to build commercial and residential buildings and "open spaces" (mostly along the bulkhead and on the foundation of un-utilized ). interstate highway containerization Port Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal Barbary Coast urban renewal Port Authority Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Pier A
Panorama of Manhattan from Pier A.
The northern portion, which had remained in private hands, has also been re-developed. While most of the dry-dock and production facilities were razed to make way for mid-rise apartment houses, many sold as investment "condos", some buildings were renovated for adaptive re-use (notably the Tea Building, formerly home to Lipton Tea, and the Machine House, home of the Hoboken Historic Museum). Zoning requires that new construction follow the street grid and limits the height of new construction to retain the architectural character of the city and open sight-lines to the river. Downtown, and honor the man most consider to be Hoboken's most famous son, while uptown the name Maxwell recalls the factory with its smell of roasting coffee wafting over town and its huge neon "Good to the Last Drop" sign, so long a part of the landscape. The midtown section is dominated by the outcropping atop of which sits (which also owns some, as yet, un-developed land on the river). At the foot of the cliff is (where 19th century day-trippers once came to "take the waters" from a natural spring), long sealed shut, though plans for its restoration are in place. The promenade along the river bank is part of the , a state-mandated master plan to connect the municipalities from the to and provide contiguous unhindered access to the water's edge and to create an urban linear park offering expansive views of the Hudson with the spectacular backdrop of the New York skyline. Sinatra Park Sinatra Drive serpentine rock Stevens Institute of Technology Sybil's Cave Hudson River Waterfront Walkway Bayonne Bridge George Washington Bridge
[] edit Pre- and post-millennium
During the late 1970s and 1980s, the city witnessed a speculation spree, fueled by transplanted New Yorkers and others who bought many turn-of-the-century brownstones in neighborhoods that the still solid middle and working class population had kept intact and by local and out-of-town real-estate investors who bought up late 19th century apartment houses often considered to be tenements. Hoboken experienced a wave of fires, some of which proved to be arson. , a real-estate investment firm, took advantage of US government incentives to renovate "sub-standard" housing and receive subsidized rental payments (commonly know as ), which enabled some low-income, displaced, and disabled residents to move within town. Hoboken attracted artists, musicians, upwardly-mobile commuters (known as yuppies), and "bohemian types" interested in the socio-economic possibilities and challenges of a bankrupt New York and who valued the aesthetics of Hoboken's residential, civic and commercial architecture, its sense of community, and relatively (compared to Lower Manhattan) cheaper rents, and quick, train hop away. (a live music venue and restaurant) opened and Hoboken became a "hip" place to live. Amid this social upheaval, so-called "newcomers" displaced some of the "old-timers" in the eastern half of the city. Applied Housing Section 8 Maxwell's
This resembled that of parts of and downtown and Manhattan's , (and to a lesser degree, and , which previously had not been residential). The initial presence of artists and young people changed the perception of the place such that others who would not have considered moving there before perceived it as an interesting, safe, exciting, and eventually, desirable. The process continued as many suburbanites, transplanted Americans, internationals, and immigrants (most focused on opportunities in NY/NJ region and proximity to Manhattan) began to make the "Jersey" side of the Hudson their home, and the "real-estate boom" of the era encouraged many to seek investment opportunities. Empty lots were built on, tenements became condominiums. Hoboken felt the impact of the destruction of the intensely, many of its newer residents having worked there. Re-zoning encouraged new construction on former industrial sites on the waterfront and the traditionally more impoverished low-lying west side of the city where, in concert with Hudson-Bergen Light Rail and New Jersey State land-use policy, are now being promoted. Hoboken became, and remains, a focal point in American rediscovery of urban living, and is often used as staging ground for those wishing to move to the New York/New Jersey metropolitan region. gentrification Brooklyn Jersey City East Village SoHo TriBeCa World Trade Center transit villages
[] edit Local government
Hoboken City Hall, on Washington Street between First Street and Newark Street.
The City of Hoboken is governed under the system of municipal government by a Mayor and a nine-member City Council. The City Council consists of three members elected at large from the city as a whole, and six members who each represent one of the city's six wards, all of whom are elected to four-year, staggered terms. Candidates run independent of any political party's backing. Faulkner Act (Mayor-Council) [26]
The Mayor of the City of Hoboken is . Members of the City Council are: David Roberts [27] [28] [29]