U.S. Customs and Border Protection
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed.needs additional for . citations verification improve this article reliable references challenged
(October 2007)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Abbreviation
www.cbp.gov http://www.cbp.gov
The (CBP), known as , is an agency of the charged with regulating and facilitating international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. trade laws. United States Bureau of Customs and Border Protection [1] [2] [3] U.S. Customs and Border Protection United States Department of Homeland Security
Its other primary mission is preventing terrorists and terrorist weapons from entering the . CBP is also responsible for apprehending individuals attempting to enter the United States illegally, stemming the flow of illegal drugs and other , protecting the United States agricultural and economic interests from harmful pests and diseases, and protecting American businesses from theft of their intellectual property. United States contraband
Contents
[] edit Organization
CBP has a workforce of over 56,000 employees, including officers, canine enforcement officers, Border Patrol agents, aircraft pilots, trade specialists, and mission support staff. There are 317 officially designated ports of entry and an additional 14 pre-clearance locations in , and the . CBP is also in charge of the , which identifies and inspects foreign cargo in its mother country before it is to be imported into the United States. [4] Canada Ireland Caribbean Container Security Initiative
The four major "offices" operating under CBP are:
The ; headed by Assistant Commissioner . Office of CBP Air & Marine Michael C. Kostelnik
The ; headed by Assistant Commissioner Rodney Snyder. Began operating in September 2007, following the merger of the former Offices of Intelligence and Anti-Terrorism. Office of Intelligence and Operations Coordination
CBP assess all passengers flying into the U.S. for terrorist risk via systems such as the (APIS), United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indication Technology , and the Student and Exchange Visitor System . CBP also works with the to screen high-risk imported food shipments in order to prevent bio-terrorism/agro-terrorism. Advance Passenger Information System US-VISIT SEVIS U.S. Food and Drug Administration
Through the , CBP works jointly with host nation counterparts to identify and screen containers that pose a risk at the foreign port of departure before they are loaded on board vessels bound for the U.S. CSI is implemented in 20 of the largest ports in terms of container shipments to the U.S., and at a total of 58 ports worldwide. Container Security Initiative
The program allows pre-screened, low-risk travelers from Mexico to be processed through dedicated lanes. is a similar program on the country's northern border with Canada. Along both borders, CBP has implemented the , which utilizes transponder technology and pre-arrival shipment information to process participating trucks as they arrive at the border. An agreement with Canada allows CBP to target, screen, and examine rail shipments headed to the U.S. Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection NEXUS Free and Secure Trade
CBP has the authority to search outbound and inbound shipments, and uses targeting to carry out its mission in this area. In conjunction with the and the , CBP has put in place regulations that require submission of electronic export information on and for technology for the Commerce Control List. CBP uses advance information from the and the to identify cargo that may pose a threat. CBP also works with the Departments of State and Defense to improve procedures on exported shipments of foreign military sales commodities, and with to seize outbound currency. Department of State Bureau of the Census U.S. Munitions List Automated Targeting System Automated Export System Immigration and Customs Enforcement
CBP Canine Enforcement Program within the OFO conducts the largest number of of any U.S. federal . K-9 teams are assigned to 73 commercial ports and 74 Border Patrol stations throughout the nation. working dogs law enforcement agency [5] [6]
[] edit U.S. Customs Service
U.S. Customs Inspectors, late 1800s
Responding to the urgent need for revenue following the , the First passed and President signed the Tariff Act of , , which authorized the collection of duties on imported goods. Four weeks later, on , the fifth act of Congress established the and its ports of entry. American Revolutionary War United States Congress George Washington July 4 1789 July 31 United States Customs Service
For nearly 125 years, the U.S. Customs Service was the primary source of funds for the entire government, and paid for the nation's early growth and infrastructure. Purchases include the and territories; and ; funding the and the ; building many of the United States' ; the and academies, and [7] Louisiana Oregon Florida Alaska National Road Transcontinental Railroad lighthouses U.S. Military Naval Washington, D.C.
[] edit Immigration and Naturalization Service
Immigration inspectors, circa 1924
Shortly after the , some states started to pass their own immigration laws, which prompted the to rule in 1875 that immigration was a federal responsibility. The established an Office of the Superintendent of Immigration within the . This office was responsible for admitting, rejecting, and processing all immigrants seeking admission to the United States and for implementing national immigration policy. "Immigrant inspectors", as they were called then, were stationed at major U.S. collecting manifests of arriving passengers. A "head tax" of fifty cents was collected on each immigrant. American Civil War U.S. Supreme Court [] citation needed Immigration Act of 1891 United States Department of the Treasury ports of entry
In the early 1900s 's primary interest in immigration was to protect American workers and wages the reason it had become a federal concern in the first place. This made immigration more a matter of commerce than revenue. In 1903, Congress transferred the Bureau of Immigration to the newly created . Congress Department of Commerce and Labor
After , Congress attempted to stem the flow of immigrants, still mainly coming from Europe by passing laws in 1921 and 1924 limiting the number of newcomers by assigning a quota to each nationality based upon its representation in previous figures. Each year, the issued a limited number of ; only those immigrants who had obtained them and could present valid visas were permitted entry. World War I U.S. census U.S. State Department visas
[] edit Reorganization (2003 to present)
CBP Officers conducting traveller examinations
CBP became an official agency of the on , , combining employees from the , the (specifically, immigration inspectors and the ), and the . CBP is headed by Commissioner . United States Department of Homeland Security March 1 2003 United States Department of Agriculture United States Immigration and Naturalization Service United States Border Patrol United States Customs Service W. Ralph Basham
Basham was nominated by President on , to be the next CBP commissioner. Basham has 28 years of experience as a law enforcement manager. His experience includes serving as the head of the and the . He has also served as the chief of staff for the . George W. Bush January 30 2006 [] citation needed Secret Service Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Transportation Security Administration
[] edit Officers
CBP officers are federal law enforcement officers empowered to exercise the authority and perform the duties provided by law and Department of Homeland Security regulations, including making arrests, conducting searches, making seizures, bearing firearms, and serving any order or warrant. CBP officers defend against terrorist intrusion by identifying high risk individuals who are attempting to enter into the United States; stop criminal activities such as drug smuggling, weapons trafficking, and money laundering by inspecting vehicles and trucks; and prevent the undocumented entry of individuals, the smuggling of prohibited goods, and other customs and immigration violations. CBP seizures and criminal cases are investigated by its sister agency, . U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
CBP officers are armed with .40 pistols, expandable , and oleoresin capsicum . They are trained at the , in Glynco, Georgia for 16 weeks. Officers who additionally serve on CBP's are trained for 6 weeks with the U.S. Border Patrol Tactical Unit in . Most CBP officers have "critical-sensitive" security clearance; however, some officers in specialized units have either Secret or Top Secret security clearances. In accordance with Public Law 110-161, CBP officers are covered under special law enforcement retirement, and all candidates must be referred for selection for this position before reaching their 37th birthday. Heckler & Koch P2000 batons pepper spray Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Special Response Team Artesia, New Mexico [] citation needed
[] edit Agricultural specialists
CBP agriculture specialists are stationed at international ports of entry located at airports, seaports, and land borders throughout the U.S. and along the Canadian and Mexican borders. They have the authority to seize prohibited or contaminated items, although they are not law enforcement officers but rather uniformed federal employees. Agriculture specialists are trained at the Professional Development Center in Frederick, Maryland for 12 weeks. Most agriculture specialists have a "sensitive" security clearance; however, some specialists working in specialized units have higher security clearances.[] citation needed
[] edit Employee morale
CBP officers at a ceremony
In July 2006, the Office of Personnel Management conducted a survey of federal employees in all 36 federal agencies on job satisfaction and how they felt their respective agency was headed. DHS (which includes CBP) was last or near to last in every category including;
36th on the job satisfaction index
35th on the leadership and knowledge management index
36th on the results-oriented performance culture index
33rd on the talent management index
The low scores were attributed to major concerns about basic supervision, management and leadership within DHS. Based on the survey, the primary concerns are about promotion and pay increase based on merit, dealing with poor performance, rewarding creativity and innovation, and the inability of leadership to generate high levels of motivation in the workforce, recognition for doing a good job, lack of satisfaction with various component policies and procedures and lack of information about what is going on with the organization and complaints from the traveling public. [8] [9]
In June 2007 CBP Commissioner W. Ralph Basham announced to employees that the agency would be conducting 125 different focus groups in 12 different cities around the country to better understand their concerns as expressed in the Human Capital Survey. The agency is also going to give employees who are not a part of that focus group process an intranet virtual focus group where they can express their views and their concerns. The commissioner stated: "We are looking at this very seriously. We want to hear from the employees, we want to hear from these focus groups, we want to drill down on this survey."
A November 2007 report showed that low staffing, training, and overwork is a large problem within CBP, and an average of 71 officers leave the service every two weeks. Government Accountability Office [10]
[] edit Equipment
CBP Air and Marine Intrepid and SafeBoat vessels accompanied on patrol by a UH-1 Huey near San Diego, Calif.
Unmanned aerial vehicle (CBP Air and Marine Unmanned Aircraft System) - MQ-9 Reaper
CBP agriculture specialists doing lab work
CBP BORSTAR canine team conducting rappel training
Vehicle