A. The answer depends on whether you are using standard or express delivery. Read below. A. Yes. For orders to Canada and all U.S. Territories, you may order through our website. Orders to other international destinations must be mailed, faxed or phoned in. To read about our international policies, including customs and prohibited item information, visit our page.
FAQs
Below you will find answers to our most frequently asked questions. If you have a question or concern that is not addressed here, please use the addresses and/or phone numbers at the right to contact a Customer Care representative.
Order / Back Order Status
What type of products should I take for bodybuilding?
Can't Find an Item You Want
I found a price in the catalog that's different from your website. Which is correct?
Wholesale / Resale Accounts
Order / Back Order Status
Q. Where's my order?
Depending on where you live, you should receive your order within 2 - 6 business days. West coast destinations take 2 - 3 business days. Midwest destinations take 3 - 5 business days. East coast destinations take 4 - 6 business days. If these time periods have been exceeded and you have not received your order, call Customer Care at 800-754-8000 Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. Or by email. We will track your order and either provide you an expected delivery date or reship a replacement.Standard Delivery contact us
We stock all items listed on our website and typically ship all Standard Delivery orders within 24 hours.Note
If you ordered by Express Delivery (1, 2 or 3 business day delivery through UPS), do not count Saturdays, Sundays or holidays in the delivery time; UPS does not deliver on these days. If you selected U.S. Mail Priority, delivery could take as long as 6 business days. If you placed an Express Delivery order before 1:00 p.m. PST, our policy is to ship the same business day. Express orders placed after 1:00 p.m. PST, will be shipped the following business day.Express DeliveryQ. When do I get my back ordered items?
A. It may already be en-route to you now! We try to get a new shipment of items within 10 days. However, if the back ordered item is a result of a manufacturing problem, the wait may be much longer. If we feel that the item you ordered will be delayed more time than expected, we will notify you by phone or email and suggest a similar item as an alternate. At any time before we ship your back order, you may cancel your back order or substitute it with another item.
To check the status of a back order, call Customer Care at 800-754-8000 Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. Or you may by email. Be sure to include your name, zip code and a brief description of the item in question. contact us Q. When do I get charged for a back order and can I cancel it?
A. If you order an item that is temporarily out-of-stock and we back order it, charges or credits are treated differently depending how you originally paid.
If you paid by credit card, your card will not be charged for the back ordered item until the day we ship it. You may notify us to cancel a back order at any time before we ship it. If you paid by check or similar method, your account will carry a credit until we ship the back ordered item. You may cancel your back order any time before it ships. You may then request a refund check or apply your credit toward another purchase.
If a back order is shipped to an address in the Continental USA, you will not be charged a second $5.95 shipping charge for Standard Delivery unless the item was noted as having an additional shipping charge. Orders shipped to other destinations will pay the actual shipping charge for the back ordered item.
Damaged, Missing or Incorrect Items
Q. I received a damaged or incorrect item. How do I get this resolved?
A. We will reship the appropriate item and make arrangements to pick up the incorrect or damaged item. Please call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. You may also by email. Be sure to include your name, invoice number, zip code and a brief description of the product in question. contact us Q. I received my order and I'm missing an item.
A. First, make sure the missing item is not marked back ordered under the (B/O) column on the receipt enclosed in the package. If the missing product is small, empty all the packing material to be sure the item is not hidden. If you still cannot locate the item, contact us and we will immediately ship a replacement at no cost to you.
Since every package is weighed before shipping, it is very easy to confirm missing items. You may also request a credit or refund if desired. Just call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. You may also by email. Be sure to include your name, zip code, invoice number and a brief description (including item number) of the missing product. contact us
Returns
Q. How do I return an item?
A. You must call or email us to obtain pre-authorization before returning any items. We have a 30-day money back guarantee on almost all items with a few minor exceptions and limitations. To read our full return policy, visit our page. To obtain pre-authorization, call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. Guarantee and Returns Q. Why don't you accept returns on certain items?
A. There are several manufacturers who do not take returns from any distributor or wholesaler like ourselves. As a result, we must either raise our prices for this manufacturer's products or keep our prices low and not accept returns. We have chosen the latter.
The other exception applies to all bars. Taste is very subjective and certain nutritious bars will never taste like a candy bar. All product descriptions will identify the items for which we do not accept returns. You will then be able to factor this into your purchase decision. To read our full policy, visit our page. Guarantee and Returns
Institutional, International, and Military Destinations
Q. Do you ship internationally?
International Orders
Q. Do you ship to correctional institutions?
A. Yes. We are approved by many facilities. Contact your correctional facility regarding their ordering policies and procedures. Some facilities have limits on quantities and the number of times you can order. There also may be certain products that are not permissible.
Q. Do you ship to APO, FPO, AA, AE, AP or Military addresses?
A. Yes. And the good news is, if you're stationed overseas and use your continental USA (lower 48 states) address, you only pay our flat $5.95 shipping charge for Standard Delivery on any size order. The military takes responsibility for the last leg of delivery. We have no control over their delivery times.
If the address we ship to is outside of the continental USA, you will be charged the actual shipping cost. We ship hundreds of orders monthly directly to military bases around the world. For more information on military orders visit our page and our page. Ship/Order Policies International Orders Q. Do you ship to P.O. Boxes or General Delivery addresses?
A. Yes. There is no difference in cost to have your order sent to these addresses compared to any regular street address. These orders are sent via U.S. Mail only. UPS does not deliver to P.O. Boxes.
Shipping Charge
Q. How much is your Shipping Charge?
A. Great news! You pay only a flat $5.95 shipping charge for any size order sent anywhere in the continental USA via our Standard Delivery. If you live in Alaska, Hawaii, a U.S. Territory or Internationally, you pay the actual cost of shipping based on weight and calculated using U.S. Post Office rates ($5.95 minimum applies).
Q. How much does it cost for Express Delivery?
A. The cost for Express Delivery is based on the weight of your order, the shipping destination and how fast you need it. During checkout, we will display the cost of Standard Delivery and Express Shipping. You can make your choice at that time. Or, in the shopping cart, you can enter your zip code into the Calculate Shipping box to view the shipping costs before you begin the checkout process.
If your order will be shipped to a street address within the Continental USA, you may upgrade to UPS 1 Day, 2 Day or 3 Day Select. If your order will be shipped to a P.O. Box, we can only offer U.S. Mail Priority since UPS does not deliver to P.O. boxes. The Express Delivery charge will be based on the actual UPS or U.S. Postal Service shipping and insurance rates in effect at the time ($5.95 minimum applies).
Payment Methods
Q. What credit cards do you accept?
A. Credit cards accepted are Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express drawn on U.S. banks. We do not accept any international credit cards including those drawn on banks located in U.S. territories such as Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, etc. We do not accept debit cards.
Q. What type of checks do you take?
A. We accept personal checks, company checks, cashier's checks, and money orders only in U.S. funds drawn on U.S. banks. In the event we cannot get approval from our check authorization company, we reserve the right to hold your order until your check clears our bank.
Q. Do you accept automatic Check Debits?
A. No. However, we do accept ATM/Check cards displaying the Visa or MasterCard symbol. They function similarly to a credit card but deduct the money directly from your checking account.
Q. Do you ship C.O.D.?
A. No.
Q. Can I place my order by phone and then mail in my payment?
A. Yes. If ordering by phone, we'll hold your order in our computer for 30 days awaiting payment.
Q. Do you need my credit card number every time I call?
A. Yes. For security purposes, we need to confirm your card number and expiration date every time you order.
Medical / Fitness Advice
Q. I have a certain medical condition. What do you recommend for it?
A. Unfortunately, we can't recommend any product for a medical condition or disease. We suggest you contact your doctor or health care provider for recommendations. If your doctor would like you to take a specific supplement, we will be happy to answer questions pertaining to the product.
Q. What type of products should I take for bodybuilding?
A. Without knowing your precise objectives, it's difficult to recommend a particular product. However, there are many informative articles on this website for you to read. If you still have questions, please call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST and speak to one of our operators. We generally have experienced staff members on hand to answer 95% of your questions. The other 5% we may have someone call you back with an answer.
Can't Find an Item You Want
Q. There is a product I've purchased from you before, but I don't see it listed now. Do you still carry it?
A. If we carried an item in the past, it's quite possible that we still have it in stock. Email us or call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. We will search our database for you. If the item has been discontinued, we may be able to suggest an equally good substitute.
Q. Are you going to carry a new product I've heard about?
A. Typically, we try to carry the latest products available. This is especially true when we already carry a particular manufacturer's line. Many times a manufacturer will advertise a product many months before they begin shipping it to us. We typically won't put these items into our website until they are in-stock.
If you email us with specific requests, we'll make sure our buyer reviews them. There are times however, when a product is sold only through one source, such as a multi-level organization. We can usually recommend a substitute at substantially lower prices.
Contact Nutritionist, Judy McFarland
Q. How can I get in touch with Judy Lindberg McFarland?
A. You can reach Judy by calling her private line at 310-544-7612, Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. PST. This number is frequently busy so keep trying.
If visiting the southern California area, you can make an appointment to meet with Judy at the Lindberg Nutrition retail store in Torrance. There she provides free nutritional counseling on Thursdays and Saturdays. Be sure to make an appointment by calling 310-378-9490 and ask to speak to the vitamin department. This counseling is not necessarily private or confidential.
Q. Where are your stores located?
A. Our stores are located in the cities of Torrance and Manhattan Beach in southern California. Visit or call 310-378-9490 for detailed directions and operating hours. LindbergNutrition.com
Price Changes / Guarantee
Q. How long are prices good for?
A. The web always displays current prices. In our printed catalog, we keep prices the same for the entire 4-month catalog period for all featured items (those with pictures). However, all line item listings printed in the National Brands section in the back of the catalog may change on a daily basis without prior notice. We cannot control when various manufacturers change their prices. When they change prices, we update our prices immediately. Fortunately, many products have come down in price over the last several years, like creatine.
Q. I found a price in the catalog that's different than your website. Which is correct?
A. Our website always has the most current prices. Prices and/or promotions on the Internet may be different than those listed in the catalog. Certain prices in our printed catalog may have changed. Look on the front catalog under our Nutrition Express logo for the date of the catalog. You may have an old catalog. Otherwise, the item may have had a manufacturer price change after we printed our catalog. When they change, we change our prices too. Generally though, the prices on featured items in our catalog (ones with photos) remain effective for the entire catalog period printed on the cover.
Wholesale / Resale Accounts
Q. I own a gym and would like to carry some of your products. Do I get a discount?
A. Yes, if you qualify. We sell to many personal trainers, gyms, doctor's offices and organizations. To qualify for an additional 5% discount, you must order a minimum $250 at a time. Discounts are calculated from single unit prices, not quantity break prices on certain items.
We will consider higher discounts for much larger orders on an individual basis. Please call for quote on large orders. Wholesale orders are never charged sales tax. Discount does not apply to bars. Shipping and handling charges are the same as regular orders. We will mail you an application to set up your account. Just by email or call Customer Care at 800-754-8000, Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. PST. The application will require you to send us a copy of your seller's permit and business license. contact us