[] edit History
Community Transit service began October 4, 1976. The original member cities were , , , , , , and . and joined the system in 1977, and two years later they were joined by , , , and . joined in 1980, and was followed by , , and in 1981. and joined in 1982, joined in 1983. The most recent to join was , in 1992. The only city in the county that maintains its own transit system is , the county seat (), though Community Transit does run some buses there. Lynnwood Edmonds Mountlake Terrace Brier Woodway Marysville Snohomish Monroe Lake Stevens Stanwood Granite Falls Mukilteo Sultan Arlington Gold Bar Index Startup Oso Darrington Mill Creek Bothell Everett Everett Transit
Community Transit currently operates , , , and services.local bus servicecommuter bus servicevanpools paratransit
[] edit Traditional bus services
[] edit Local bus service
Community Transit currently operates 33 (as of 2007) routes in . These routes, covering a service area of 3,367 square kilometers (1,300 square miles) serve most communities within the county, with the exception of certain smaller communities on east of . Snohomish County [1] [1] U.S. Highway 2 Gold Bar
A Community Transit bus stop in Lynnwood, WA
The vast majority of routes operate from the early morning hours until the evening, with reduced schedules on weekends and holidays. Certain routes, such as routes that travel to 's Everett facility, operate only in a peak direction and/or only at certain times (to Boeing in the morning, away from Boeing in the afternoon), while other routes can have variations depending on the time of day. Usually, but not always, these 'alternate' routes have a distinct route number to help commuters differentiate (e.g., the 200/201/202 route, which takes one of three paths at different times of day). However, some routes, like the 280 route which serves Granite Falls, simply add on extra sections at various times of day without changing the route number. This is usually the case when the additional routing would not otherwise interfere with the normal route. Boeing [4] [5]
[] edit Commuter bus service
In addition to local service, Community Transit also operates 31 commuter routes in conjunction with . Most of these routes operate in a peak-flow capacity, taking passengers from various communities to , , , or the () in the morning hours and bringing them back in the afternoon and evening. A few routes, under the direction of Sound Transit, provide round trip service throughout the day to major destinations in the county, such as or . Most commuter buses serve one of the 20 park and ride lots within the county as well as limited stops within the communities they originate from. Sound Transit [1] Seattle Bellevue Redmond University District University of Washington Everett Lynnwood
[] edit Vanpool services
Community Transit also provides service. These allow for more flexibility than traditional fixed-bus routes in that the riders--who also take turns driving the van--decide their own routing, thus allowing non-traditional commuters, including those without access to fixed routes or those whose transport needs are not met by fixed routes, to still utilize transit services. In exchange for a monthly fee that varies depending on mileage and size of van, Community Transit provides the vehicle, maintenance, fuel, insurance, and other miscellaneous needs. With 333 vans as of August 2007, the vanpool service is the third largest in the United States. vanpool [6] [7]
[] edit Paratransit services
Community Transit also provides paratransit services for those who live within a three-quarters of a mile of a local fixed-bus route. This service, called DART or Dial-A-Ride Transportation, provides those with conditions that prevent normal bus usage to reach their destinations. [8]
[] edit Current Bus Fleet