By written on 1998-05-28 National Library Board SingaporeTan, Bonny
Comments on article: InfopediaTalk
Raffles' Bust, a marble portrait of Sir Stamford Raffles, was originally designed and cast by Sir Francis Legatt Chantrey in 1817. The original was believed to have been destroyed with the sinking of the ship, the Fame in 1824. Copies were however made for the London Zoological Society and the Singapore Institution. For a period, the bust also sat in the Raffles Library.  In 1812, as the Lieutenant-Governor of Java, Stamford Raffles helped revive the Batavian Society of Arts and Science, the oldest learned society in Asia. When he resigned as President upon leaving Java in 1816, members of the society asked if a bust could be made of him to be placed in the Hall of the Society. Originally, the bust was to be that of their Patron, the Earl of Minto, but he had suddenly passed away on his return to England. In 1817, a year after his return to England, Raffles sat for Sir Francis Legatt Chantrey () and paid 126 pounds in cash for the marble bust, "an image of the recently knighted Raffles resplendent in youth and vigour". When Raffles returned to Sumatra in 1818, he realised that he was not truly welcomed by the Dutch colonial authorities. He carried with him the marble bust sculpted by Chantrey but transferred it to his wife, Lady Raffles, for safe-keeping. Unfortunately, it is believed that the original bust sank with the ship, the on 2 February 1824. However, Chantrey had kept a plaster copy of the original and at least two models were commissioned using this plaster copy. One was used for E. Roscoe Mullins' () marble bust presented by the Reverend William Charles Flint to the Zoological Society of London in 1877. This marble copy came to be regarded as the original and it was used to make the 1929 bronze model for the 150th anniversary of the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences, but in effect this was a copy thrice removed. Lady Raffles also had a copy made of Chantrey's plaster copy and had it presented to the Singapore Institution around the 1830s. On 1 January 1836, sponsors were informed that the bust would be placed in a conspicuous spot in the completed building, with inscriptions in English, Latin, Chinese and Malay. According to Buckley, however, the inscriptions were never made. A drawing plan of the Institution's library, dated 1841, highlights that the bust was planned to sit in its hallowed halls. The bust remained with the Raffles Museum and Library until 1906 when the then principal of Raffles Institution, R. W. Hullett, presented the bust to the Singapore Municipality on his retirement. It sat in the Municipal Offices but no records of it was found in 1942 amongst the objects brought for safe keeping during the war years. It is believed to reside now in the Singapore High Commission Office in London, although how it reached London, no one knows. Bonny Tan   Archer, M., & John, B. (1978). (pp. 10-14). Kuala Lumpur: Oxford University Press. (Call no.: RSING 741.959 ARC) Ramachandra, S. (1961). (p. 4). Singapore: D. Moore. (Call no.: RSING 959.57 RAM)
Chantrey's Original