We don't mean to brag, but our high-speed Internet service comes with some really cool online features like email accounts with video mail, exclusive online content, personal web space and more - all for free and supported by 24/7 technical support.
Webmail
Super-Powered Email
Create up to four separate email accounts with a total of 2GB storage space and spam filters that help block unwanted messages. Best of all, webmail is ad-free so nothing distracts you from keeping in touch with friends and family.
A drag-and-drop feature makes it easy to sort messages
A calendar tool can help keep track of upcoming events
Customize your inbox colors
Webmail memorizes your contact's email addresses and auto-completes them as you type them in
Video Mail
The Future Has Arrived
There may not be flying cars any time soon, but there's video messaging. Easy-to-record (and send) and so much fun to receive, video mail is a fast and convenient way to communicate. And don't worry  it's a cinch to download and install so you'll be recording your first video in no time.
Learn more about video mail
Forgot to send a birthday card to someone? Save paper and face. Choose from more than 50 different video mail greeting cards including birthday, anniversary, thinking of you, holiday, and humor. You can also organize photos in a video slideshow to share with family and friends. Use your webcam to record an introduction, then determine the order the photos are shown in and add your narration.
Technical Details:
Video mail messages are encoded at a high bitrate (200 Kbps) for excellent quality
Send up to 30 MB worth of videos
Up to 45 seconds of recording time (plenty of time to talk and share photos)
Recipients get a message with a link to view the video you create (no bulky attachments)
Video mail is stored on the server and is available to view for a full 30 days
System Requirements:
* Macintosh not supported **Most computers have this built in
Exclusive Online Entertainment
Watch ABC, ESPN And Disney Shows For Free Online
You get free subscriptions to three incredible online news and entertainment sources. Watch 24/7 sports coverage on ESPN360.com, catch breaking news and popular videos on ABC News Now and access Disney Connection for an exciting interactive experience for the whole family.
Learn more about exclusive online entertainment
ESPN360.com offers a wide array of event programming options, allowing users to choose from up to 10 live events at any given time as well as recently completed and archived events. ABC News Now features a live, 24/7 broadcast of special ABC programming: Disney Connection includes games, TV episodes, movie clips, music videos, and classic cartoons  all featuring your favorite Disney stars. Plus, you'll enjoy full access to Playhouse Disney Preschool Time and cool games and crazy pets in Disney Game Kingdom Online. Learn more about exclusive online entertainment
ESPN360.com
Watch more live sports online than ever before
NBA games and College Basketball action
Cricket, European Club soccer and SerieA soccer
LIVE NASCAR action - every NASCAR Nationwide Series race and the Camping World 300
And much, much more
Over a thousand video clips with the latest on politics, entertainment, health, technology and more
News briefs throughout the day (including breaking news)
Full episodes of ABC news programs including World News with Charles Gibson and Nightline
Exclusive interviews and video clips (only on ABC News Now)
Disney Connection
Watch videos and classic cartoons  all featuring your favorite Disney stars
Full episodes from Disney Channel, Playhouse Disney and Toon Disney
Exclusive clips & sneak peaks from upcoming Disney movies and new shows
Disney Channel Games Arena Challenge  compete with other players in an exciting online stadium
RCN Journal
Your Very Own Web Space
Build a personal webpage in minutes. Choose from different styles and templates and add personal photos, videos and blog entries to share with your friends and family. Display your pictures in photo galleries and all kinds of other fun stuff.