WHAT DOES OUR RADIO SCHOOL ALTERNATIVE COST?
$7450
That's right, just $7450, if you pay in full.If   Not only can you start immediately, you'll avoid all financing charges, which can run as high as $1330. 
THIS IS OUR BEST DEAL.
you finance, the tuition cost still runs these financing charges.Still a darn good deal.These prices include all placement research, curriculum and training materials, mentor/instructor compensation, in-station training, and up to a one year of job placement assistance.Everything you need to complete your radio school alternative course is included in the tuition price.$7450plus    
DO WE OFFER FINANCING?
ABSOLUTELY!We know times are tough right now.Because the Entertainment Connection is fully accredited, we are able to offer many different financial aid packages. So we’re pretty sure we can find a plan that will fit your budget.Just give us a call and let us do the paper work for you, so you can get your career in the radio industry going.Our toll free number is:    
1-800-755-7597
Our professional and qualified financial aid consultants are waiting to help you between 9:00AM and 6:00PM PST (12:00PM and 9:00PM EST) Monday through Friday.Remember, there is never any charge for having us do the loan application work for you, so unless you’re one of those people who love doing their own taxes every year, give us a call.Let us get you into the program, now!  
Sallie Mae , the nation’s leader in Higher Education Loans offers low cost loans to qualified students.Not only will Sallie Mae ($7450) but they'll also loan up to 60% additional ($4470) for living expenses and/or equipment purchases if you choose. cover the entire tuition cost
So, if you are 18 years of age or older, have a good credit report and track record, you can qualify for aZERO DOWN, low interest (starting at Prime Rate + 0%) loan and .Please call one of our Sallie Mae Financial Aid Advisors at to see if you qualify.take up to 15 years to pay it back 
800.755.7597
For those who don’t qualify for Sallie Mae financing, do not despair.Again, because we are fully accredited, Entertainment Connection can offer in-house,Pretty much, this means that unless you haven’t been paying your bills, we can get you a financing program that will fit your budget.We can do that.We can do that.Relax, we can even do that for you.There’s for any of this.So pick up the phone and call us, toll free at: Internal Financing.  Need a low down payment?  Need to stretch your payments over several years?  Don’t want to fill out a lot of loan application forms?  no cost 
1-800-755-7597  1-310-456-9624
ANYTHING ELSE I SHOULD KNOW?
YES!  
Think for just a minute about all the money you will save by going to the Radio Connection.Since your “campus” will be a , you won’t rack up any moving expenses.You’ll never need to relocate to go to our school alternative, because we’re where you are.This means that you can , because after 23 years of doing this, we’ve gotten pretty good at scheduling classes around students “day jobs.” Additionally, all books, supplies and materials are included in the Tuition price.There are never any add-ons or hidden charges with us. There are .by your mentor, and receive your contracts from Entertainment Connection's corporate office, and then, only after you “accept” our mentor.  real radio stationwhere you live  keep your current job   no application fees  There iswe send you on.no charge for the mentor interview No money is due until you'reformally accepted
WHAT’S THE NEXT STEP?
THAT’S EASY!ick up the phone and give us a call, toll free, at (Monday thru Friday 9:00AM to 5:00PM PST) or click on the apply now button and fill in our application form.The sooner you apply, the sooner we can get you onto the radio station and on your way to an exciting career in the radio business.  P1-800-755-7597 
Learn The Radio Business From An Radio Industry Pro
First Name: