Return to Index Step 1: The Dangers of High Cholesterol Step 2: Types of Cholesterol Step 3: What Causes High Cholesterol? Step 4: Symptoms of High Cholesterol Step 5: Cholesterol Screening and Testing Step 6: Maintain Healthy Habits Step 7: Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs Step 8: You and Your Doctor are a Team Keypoints Glossary
*Close Menu*
*Close Menu*
Step 2: Types of cholesterol
Cholesterol does not mix well with blood -- similar to oil and water. To help cholesterol travel through blood to get where it is needed, the body wraps it within water-soluble proteins. This mixture of fatty cholesterol and protein is known as a "lipoprotein."
The good and the bad
You will generally hear about two types, often called the "good cholesterol" and the "bad cholesterol":
-- HDL stands for High-Density Lipoproteins. These are composed mainly of proteins with only small amounts of cholesterol. HDLs are good because they remove cholesterol from artery walls and transport it to the liver for elimination from the body. Higher HDL levels actually protect against cardiovascular disease.HDL (good) cholesterol
-- LDL stands for Low-Density Lipoproteins. These are composed mainly of cholesterol and have very little protein. They are bad because they deposit cholesterol on the walls of your arteries. High LDL levels increase the risk for cardiovascular disease.LDL (bad) cholesterol
You should also be aware of -- another type of fat that is transported in your blood. High triglyceride levels are another risk factor for cardiovascular disease.triglycerides
When determining heart disease risk, physicians take your whole lipid profile into account, with particular focus on the .LDL value
Remember...
You want HDL to be HIGH.
You want LDL to be LOW.
Review Date: 10/31/2006 Reviewed By: Alan Greene, M.D., F.A.A.P., Department of Pediatrics, Packard Children's Hospital, Stanford University School of Medicine; Chief Medical Officer, A.D.A.M., Inc.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. 1997- A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.