Arm and Wrist Supports and Braces
 Wrist and Forearm Braces  - Purpose
The wrist is responsible for properly coordinated muscle contraction and allows rotary, stretching, and flexing movements. Although there are a variety of braces with different designs, the goal of reducing the pressure on and supporting the inflamed tendons is the same. As the elbow heals, the brace should be used less and less, and then just for supports, to protect the tendons from re-injury. The hands and wrists are also some of the most intricate and vulnerable areas of the human body. As a result, many people suffer from pain in their hands and wrists. Wrist braces can be a valuable tool in preventing or easing wrist pain as well as rehabilitating injured wrists. Quite often those who suffer from wrist pain caused by carpal tunnel syndrome, wrist tendonitis, arthritis or other wrist injuries or sprains find that wearing a wrist brace reduces pain and other discomfort in the hands and fingers. For example, a study by Arthritis Care and Research found that the use of wrist braces helps pain and improves hand movement in individuals with inflammatory arthritis.
49060 Captain Adjustable Wrist Support 
Product Description
The Captain Adjustable Wrist Support is designed to provide maximum support for injury prevention, as well as relieve pain associated with common wrist ailments such as Carpal Tunnel Syndrome by reducing tendon irritation and inflammation. This Captain Adjustable Wrist support is equipped with two Velcrotightening straps to ensure the perfect level of compression, support and comfort. Designed for use on the left or right wrist and is adjustable to all wrist sizes.
$12.99 On Sale 9.99
Designed to provide maximum support for injured wrists or to help prevent injuries from occurring
Helps relieve pain associated with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome by reducing tendon irritation and inflammation
Equipped with two Velcrotightening straps to ensure the perfect level of compression, support and comfort
Designed for use on the left or right wrist and is adjustable to all wrist sizes
49120 Captain Wrist Support with Thumb Hole
The Captain Wrist Support with Thumb Hole provides firm wrist support to reduce the likelihood of injury and to offer stability for weak or injured wrists. For injury recovery, the support provides therapeutic heat retention to help reduce stiffness and regain pain-free wrist movement. The Captain Wrist Support is made with non-slip neoprene and equipped with a thumb hole for easy application. The large Velcro closure ensures a snug fit while allowing for a customizable level of support. Designed for use on either wrist. Package contains one wrist support.
$9.99 On Sale 7.99
Provides therapeutic heat retention to reduce stiffness
Equipped with a thumb hole for easy application
Adjustable Velcro closure for customized compression
Designed for use on either wrist
One Size Fits All
Provides firm support and stability
 
49090 Captain Elastic Wrist Wrap
Product Description
The Captain Elastic Wrist Wrap provides customized compression and support for injured wrists or for maximum support during athletic activities. The lightweight elastic allows heat to escape ensuring a cool and comfortable fit while offering unrestricted support for the muscles and ligaments of the wrist. The durable Captain Elastic Wrist Wrap is made with high-quality, long-life elastic to ensure the same high level of support every use. The attached wrist sleeve allows for easy application and adjustment.
$8.99 On Sale 6.99
Customized compression and support for injured wrists or injury prevention
Equipped with a reinforced wrist loop for easy application and adjustment
Made with high-quality, long-life elastic to ensure the same high level of support every use
One size fits all
49030 Captain Adjustable Elbow/Wrist Support
 
Product Description
The Captain Adjustable Elbow/Wrist Support is a multi-use, fully adjustable support for use on the elbow or the wrist. When worn on the upper forearm, the support provides a customized level of compression designed to relieve or prevent pain associated with common elbow injuries such as Tennis and Golfer's Elbow. When worn on the wrist, the support provides therapeutic values of heat retention and support to help alleviate pain associated with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and reduce the likelihood of injury. 
Equipped with an adjustable Velcro fastener, the Captain Elbow/Wrist Support allows the user to choose the perfect amount of pressure applied to ensure proper circulation and movement.
$13.99 On Sale 10.99
Multi-use for customized support for the forearm or wrist
Relieves pain associated with common elbow and wrist ailments
Constructed to maintain proper blood flow and comfortable movement
Equipped with a reinforced Velcro fastener for adjustable support
One size fits all and may be worn on the left or right arm
 
Neoprene Elbow Sleeve
Product Description
The Captain Elbow Sleeve provides the therapeutic values of heat retention, compression and support. The high quality neoprene retains heat to warm and relax the muscles and tendons helping you regain full elbow movement. The Captain Elbow Sleeve provides comfortable compression to help reduce the pain associated with common elbow injuries such as Tennis and Golfer's Elbow, without limiting range of motion. Made with high quality, closed cell neoprene for great comfort and constructed to last with reinforced seams and capped edges.
$14.99 On Sale 11.99
Provides the therapeutic warming values to reduce tendon stress
Provides comfortable compression to the forearm muscles and tendons
Anatomically contoured to ensure comfort and correct positioning
Designed to be worn on the left or right
Sizing Chart
Measure the circumference directly around the elbow joint with arm extended.
Small 810br> Medium 1011.5br> Large 11.513 Extra Large 1315/p>
 4911* Captain Elastic Elbow Support
Product Description
The Captain Elastic Elbow Support provides firm compression and therapeutic warmth to help reduce inflammation and relieve stiffness. The contoured fit and breathable elastic ensures a dry and comfortable fit during all of your athletic activities. The Captain Elastic Elbow Support is made with high quality, long-life elastic to ensure the same level of support and compression every use.
$12.99 On Sale 8.99
Provides firm compression and therapeutic warmth to help reduce inflammation and relieve stiffness
Contoured fit and breathable elastic ensures and cool and comfortable fit
Made with high quality, long-life elastic
Sizing Chart
Measure the circumference of your extended elbow directly over the joint. Small/Medium up to 10.5br> Large/Extra Large 10.5and above
 