Sign up for our newsletter
Want to keep informed with the latest news and specials?
Used Cardio Equipment
Life Fitness Summit Trainer
These revolutionary machines combine the best of total-body cross-training and climbing into one intuitive product that will challenge every exerciser. User-defined stride lengths and five training positions allow exercisers to control workout intensity and target different muscle groups for truly versatile, personalized workouts.
Price: $2,800
Vision Fitness X6200 Folding Elliptical
The X6200 includes nine programs and a programmable motor that operates the resistance levels. Like the X6000 it comes with a heavy 24 lbs flywheel that contributes to a smooth elliptical motion. It also has a long 19.75-inch stride length and articulating footplates and the pedals fold and only take up a 42" x 27" space when folded.
Price: $1,500
Cybex 630A Arc Trainer
Cross-training in fitness refers to working various parts of the body by combining different exercises in a variety of ways. Typically one activity or sport trains certain parts of the body but not others. Cross-training aims to eliminate this. With the CYBEX Arc Trainer, broad incline and resistance ranges mean that .users are really getting 3-4 machines in one
Price: $4,999
Life Fitness 9500R Bike
Life Fitness Life Cycle 9500R Recumbent Exercise Bike first set the standard for computerized fitness equipment more than 30 years ago, a legacy that has made them the #1 preferred bikes in the world. Lifecycle exercise bikes deliver motivating aerobic workouts to people of all ages and fitness levels and because of its highly effective and durable design, the heavy-duty Lifecycle can handle the daily rigors of the most demanding facilities and are exceptionally well suited for home use too. This proven track record distinguishes Lifecycle Exercise Bikes from all other bikes in the industry, offering you great reliability, longevity and ease of use.
Price: $500
Life Fitness 90R Bike
This commercial grade bike is available for home purchase at a great price. Complete with 11 Wide Ride pedal adjustments, side and front handlebars and Polar wireless heart rate compatibility. User can select from a variety of pre-designed workouts or take advantage of the custom workout functions. Machine is self powered with an optional plug-in accessory.
Price: $900
True Z8M Elliptical - Commercial Grade
Intended for rigorous 24/7 use, Z8 Elliptical Trainers have the heat and soul of all True commercial models. Mag wheel styling, high gloss titanium and black powder coat finishes, annodized extruded aluminum tracks and commercial grade frame and stabilizer bars deftly blend beauty and brawn for years of unrivaled durability.
The Z8M features a manually adjustable stride from 18" to 24"
MSRP: $4,396
BProFitness Price: $1,000
PaceMaster Pro Plus Treadmill
The PaceMaster Pro-plus is a superior treadmill. The size of the walking/jogging surface is big enough to safely accommodate persons that are small size to a larger one. The machine is very stable if it is used for walking or at full speed running. The running surface is well cushioned for extra comfort.
BProFitness Price: $300
True 850 Treadmill - Commercial Grade
The True 850 Treadmill is setting a higher standard for treadmill excellence in the commercial fitness industry. We have used commercial treadmills that are perfect for a home setting. A 6 hp motor combined with its many workout options provides a reliable workout experience in the comfort of your home on a treadmill built for the use and abuse of a 24 hour gym.
Only 2 left in inventory
MSRP: $6,000
BProFitness Price: $2,000
StairMaster 4000 PT
The legendary Stairmaster 4000 PT is the original stepper, made by the industry-leading manufacturer of steppers. The independent step action, with the extra wide "sweet spot" makes the Stamaster effective and enjoyable to use. It offers a wide range of exercise options, to provide consistent motivation and challenge for everyone, regardless of fitness level or age. The speed control buttons allow for an increase or decrease stepping speed at at any point during the workout.
MSRP: $2,695
BProFitness Price: $800
Life Fitness 95xe Elliptical
Commercial grade elliptical with Fit Stride technology and 20" stride. Take advantage of the E3 integrated LCD system with touch screen technology. 30 workouts including 5 Zone Training + workouts and Fit Test Protocol. Users have the ability to choose from up to 13 different languages.
MSRP: $6,599.99