Sign up for our newsletter
Want to keep informed with the latest news and specials?
Would you like to work with an industry leader in a fun, fast paced environment?
Employment Opportunities
Learn more...
Scroll through our selections of ellipticals.
The X1 is perfect for the person that just wants to get on and go. It has everything youd expect from a Life Fitness elliptical cross-trainerunparalleled quality, a fluid total-body motion, and the patented Link6" elliptical drive system that delivers an incredibly natural, comfortable stride. Want to spice things up? Choose the Advanced Workouts Console for wireless heart rate monitoring and added workout program variety to keep you going strong.
Life Fitness X1 Elliptical Cross-Trainer
Price starting at: $1,999
No matter how hard you push yourself on the X3, its WhisperStride" technology keeps things remarkably quiet while delivering a smooth, fluid motion. Contact heart rate hand sensors on the stationary handlebars let you track your workout progress as youre pushing through each stage of your workout. And details like brushed aluminum end caps add an attractive, finished look.
Life Fitness X3 Elliptical Cross-Trainer
Price starting at: $2,599
The X5 combines contemporary styling with exceptional workout versatility. Using Life Fitness SelectStride" technology, the X5 allows you to adjust the stride length for different-sized users in the household. And by varying the stride, you can also target different muscle groups, such as thighs, calves, and glutes. The sleek style and quiet motion of the X5 make it an attractive addition to any room.
Life Fitness X5 Elliptical Cross-Trainer
Price starting at: $3,099
The next generation of cross-trainers has arrived. The X7 has all the latest technology packed into one ground-breaking model for the home. Its loaded with must-have features to customize your workout including electronic adjustment to seven different stride lengths, a full lineup of challenging programs, and design features that make your most intense workouts more comfortable than ever before. Choose the X7 for workouts and results that exceed your expectations time and time again.
Life Fitness X7 Elliptical Cross-Trainer
Price: $3,999
The Club Series Elliptical Cross-Trainer is the award-winning home version of our popular health club model. Its a towering icon in elliptical technology. The result of extensive research and testing, the Club Series Elliptical Cross-Trainer delivers a remarkably pure, natural elliptical motion. Try it for yourself and youll see why people who use it often forget they are exercising so intensely.
Life Fitness Club Series Elliptical Cross-Trainer
Price: $3,999
Octane Fitness Q35 Series Elliptical
The original Octane Fitness elliptical, this proven winner is backed by multiple awards and testimonials. Recognized as an innovative, high performance cross trainer, the Q35 was the first to incorporate Body-Mapping Ergonomics and the QuadLink drive for a natural, smooth, total-body motion. Your comfort is ensured with close pedal spacing since the hips dont have to shift laterally and tax the lower back. Plus, the Q35 offers a wealth of superior features at unbeatable value. Among them are the popular X-Mode workout and several preset resistance routines, such as effective interval training. Stationary handlebars, a convenient accessory tray and a handy reading rack further enhance convenience.
Price:Q35$2,199
Octane Fitness Q37 Series Elliptical
The first ellipticals to boast the breakthrough Converging Path handlebars, Octanes exceptional Q37 Series features the companys exclusive Body-Mapping Ergonomics that delivers exact inertia and smooth, fluid motion to replicate natural movement. In addition, these superior models are equipped with 1.8 spacing between the pedalsthe closest in the industryfor extraordinary comfort. Here, the intense ArmBlaster now enables you to personalize resistance levels and number of repetitions for a variety of sweat sessions. Also, customizable are the unique X-Mode and the exhilarating GluteKicker. Plus, the unmatched MOM Mode disables console buttons and restricts movement of the pedals and handlebars for extra safety.
Price:Q37$2,499 /Q37e$2,999 /Q37ce$3,199
Octane Fitness Q47 Series Elliptical
Octanes Q47 Series cross trainersthe third-generation, flagship productsare unquestionably the most ergonomically advanced and technologically superior ellipticals available, now bringing health club-quality workouts to your home. The only cross trainers to boast the even smarter SmartStride, the Q47 Series includes interactive ergonomics that monitors pace and direction and automatically changes stride length accordingly. Plus, now SmartStride individually fits every exerciser with size-based programming and the unique Hip Indexing Pivot (HIP) that measures your hip height and speed to optimize your strides and maximize muscle use throughout your workout. Combined with the patented Converging Path and MultiGrip handlebars that deliver superior upper-body comfort and training, these premium ellipticals perfectly accommodate everyone in your household and boldly surpass your greatest expectations.
Price:Q47$3,799 /Q47e$4,199 /Q47ce$4,399
Octane Fitness xRide Seated Elliptical
Get ready for the ride of your life with Octane's new xR6 Series seated elliptical cross trainers. Offering innovative, motivating programs and features, the xR6 gives you an 'alternative fuel' to help you achieve your exercise goals. You'll love its smooth elliptical motion and the invigorating push/pull action of the moving handlebars as you pedal and push your way to an exhilarating total-body workout experience.
Challenge yourself even more with the unique workout boostersMuscle Endurance, Chest Press and Leg Pressfocusing on your troubled areas for optimal results and the best overall workout. You will feel the difference!
Built with exercisers' needs in mind and backed by the award-winning service of Octane Fitness, the xR6 Series seated ellipticals promise a great rideand a great workoutevery time!
Price: xR6ce $3,799 / xR6e $3,599 / xR6 $3,199
This patent-pending machine blends the low-impact stride of ellipticals and the calorie burn from incline training. The best part is, you define your stride. No other cardio machine gives you up to 44" of natural striding motion in a small footprint. This unique footpath allows you to engage your hamstrings and glutes for more muscle activation and calorie burning than walking and running. Regardless of your height, you are free to move through YOUR natural range of motion.
FreeMotion 7.8FS Free Strider
Price: $5,499
FreeMotion 5.8FS Free Strider
This patent-pending machine blends the low-impact stride of ellipticals and the calorie burn from incline training. The best part is, you define your stride. No other cardio machine gives you up to 35" of natural striding motion in a small footprint. This unique footpath allows you to engage your hamstrings and glutes for more muscle activation and calorie burning than walking and running. Regardless of your height, you are free to move through YOUR natural range of motion.
Whether you like the motivation of heart-pumping music or the diversion of your favorite movie or TV show, you've got your choice with a 7" digital TV and speakers integrated in the console. Simply connect your cable, DVD player or iPod for the ultimate in workout entertainment.
Price: $3,499
This patent-pending machine blends the low-impact stride of ellipticals and the calorie burn from incline training. The best part is, you define your stride. No other cardio machine gives you up to 35" of natural striding motion in a small footprint. This unique footpath allows you to engage your hamstrings and glutes for more muscle activation and calorie burning than walking and running. Regardless of your height, you are free to move through YOUR natural range of motion.
FreeMotion 5.6FS Free Strider
Price: $2,999
Comfortable and space-efficient are two terms used to describe the X1400. An 18-inch stride length, pivoting footplates, and ergonomic handlebars are our secrets to user comfort. The 57"L x 26"W footprint will take up less space in your home than comparable elliptical trainers. The Quiet-Glide" drive system and ECB magnetic resistance system make this machine especially smooth and quiet.
Vision Fitness X1400 Elliptical Trainer
Price: $999
The X6100 Elliptical Trainer is a great value that is loaded with features. The ECB-Plus" motor operated, permanent magnet resistance system controls resistance with the push of a button. The blue backlit LCD console features six programs, including the popular SPRINT 8, and a scrolling message center to keep you motivated. The patented folding pedal arms make storage easy when not in use.
Vision Fitness X6100 Elliptical Trainer
Price: $1,699
The S7200HRT Suspension Elliptical" Trainer features PerfectStride" technology, which combines an ideal stride motion, ergonomically-correct foot positioning, and optimal incline and stride length adjustments. The variable stride motion allows you to change the emphasis on the muscles being targeted during your workout. The unique suspension design provides an exceptionally smooth feel, utmost comfort, and unmatched accessibility.
Vision Fitness S7200HRT Suspension Elliptical Trainer
Price: $3,499
The new X6150 Incline Elliptical Trainer is one of the only home elliptical trainers in its price range to feature both the benefits of an adjustable incline ramp (with 16 levels of incline) AND upper-body dual-action arms. You also get a crisp, blue backlit display with an alphanumeric message center, seven feedback windows, and an impressive number of programs. Other features include contact heart rate grips, a built-in reading rack, and a water bottle cage.
Vision Fitness X6150 Incline Elliptical Trainer
Price: $2,199
Like our popular X6200HRT, the console on the X6250HRT Incline Elliptical Trainer features a large display with eight different types of feedback, a scrolling alphanumeric message center, and a heart rate window. You get 14 engaging programs, a built-in reading rack, and a large accessory tray. Additionally, the X6250HRT offers an adjustable incline ramp that gives you more variety in your workouts by allowing you to simulate hills, target different muscles, and increase intensity.
Vision Fitness X6250HRT Incline Elliptical Trainer
Price: $2,799
Moving at the Speed of Life
" Ballantyne 704.844.0497 " Rivergate 704.504.3524 " Charlotte 704.521.1448 " Lake Norman 704.660.0094 " Winston-Salem 336.659.0201 " SouthPark Mall Kiosk "