| | | Sonoma County Home Site Map Contact Us Search
You are here:
The following is a listing of programs and services for women and children available through the many Public Health programs.
The Public Health Nurses (PHNs) at the Disease Control unit are pleased to answer any questions you may have about communicable diseases. Ask a Disease Control Nurse
Vital Statistics provides certified birth certificates from the past five years, and certified death certificates from the past two years. Birth and Death Certificates
Maternal, Child, Adolescent Health provides education and guidelines for breastfeeding mothers. Breastfeeding Support
(CCS) If your child has a catastrophic or serious medical condition, our California Children Services program may be able to provide financial assistance for diagnosis and treatment. California Children Services
(CHDP) This preventive program makes early health care available to children and youth with health problems as well as to those who seem well. Eligible children and youth receive periodic preventive health assessments, and those with suspected problems are then referred for diagnosis and treatment. Child Health and Disability Prevention
(CLPP) Keeping children safe from lead poisoning requires attention from everyone in a child's life. The CLPP program employs a team of health professionals, who provide services to parents, healthcare providers, and the general public. Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention
Free home visits for every Sonoma County parent having their first baby, to assist in the new role as a parent. Families First Home Visiting
The Public Health Clinics provides routine childhood immunizations, and adult immunizations upon request. Family Immunizations
Family Planning services are available by appointment at the Public Health Clinics on a low- or no-cost basis. Family Planning Clinic
Healthy Kids Sonoma County is a communitywide effort working to create and finance a system of accessible, affordable healthcare coverage for all Sonoma County children. Find Children's Health Insurance
Do you think you may have been exposed to HIV? The Center for HIV Prevention & Care can help you determine if you should be tested. HIV Testing and Prevention
This program coordinates maternity care for families, and provides information and referrals to the local community to help families obtain access to pregnancy care. Maternal, Child, Adolescent Health
Our Public Health Nurses (PHN) specialize in working with pregnant women and families with young children. Maternal Child Health Field Nursing
Confidential low-cost birth control is provided to people seeking pregnancy prevention services at the Public Health Clinics. Pregnancy Prevention
Confidential pregnancy testing and counseling is offered by the Public Health Clinics. Pregnancy Testing
For teens who are 18 and under and pregnant or already have a child, Teen Parent Connections can help you have a healthy baby, stay in school, budget your money, plan a career, and be the best parent you can be! Teen Parent Connections
The public health clinics provide reproductive health testing and services, and family and travel immunizations. Services are provided with an emphasis on standards of excellence in health care. Public Health Clinics
The Public Health Clinics offer confidential clinical services to teens. Teen Services
(WIC) WIC is a nutrition program that helps mothers and young children eat well and stay healthy. Women, Infants and Children
 