Confessions from a patterns & fabric addict
Archive for September, 2007
Out of my sewing slump?
September 26, 2007
Nah, I still haven’t cleaned up my sewing “attic”. I’ve been too busy with freelance contracts on the side, that occupied my evenings and my weekends of the last 2 months. But now that I’ve started my sewing lessons (more on that later), I think I’ll have to take some time to clean up my attic! I need to put the patterns back into their envelopes, WITH their instructions. I need to take a look at my pattern inventory to see what I could make in the coming months. I’m now 12 kilos lighter than in June, I’ve dropped 2 full dress sizes and that opens up a whole new range of sewing opportunities! I have patterns in many sizes, so now is the time to try them… before they get too big.
As I said, I have started with my sewing classes, every Monday. Of course, the classes are aimed at beginners, but the teacher said that sewists of all levels are welcomed and I see these classes as the perfect place to learn how to make a jacket or vest that fits, or how to put an invisible zipper properly (I still can’t do that… shame on me!), or in my particular case, how to adapt existing garments to my everchanging weight… Last Monday, we learned how to make a simple pincushion… erm, I’m a bit further than that, but anyway, I went with the flow and made a nice pincushion I needed one anyway!! Perhaps next week I’ll skip the baby pants lesson and start straight away with the winter jacket I’d like to make. I’ll have a look at the fabric in my stash during the weekend and dig in the mess in my attic for the pattern I’m looking for…
I have signed up for classes!
September 5, 2007
Everybody looked at me in utter shock when I mentionned that I signed up for sewing classes at one of my local neighborhood centers. “Sewing classes? Why? You can make a wedding dress, you don’t need classes!”
Well, I still think I need classes. Because there are so many techniques that I don’t master yet, and it’s never too late to learn them. Plus, improving what you already know is always good. And it’s a nice way to getting to know people who love sewing as much as I do!
Classes start at the end of September, I can’t wait!
You are currently browsing the blog archives for September, 2007. Blue Lilly's Sewing Page
a