Contacts
University Recruiting
The world is looking to science and technology as never before for solutions to critical problems. As a U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science laboratory, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is part of that quest, providing science-based solutions to high-priority challenges in national security, energy and the environment. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is currently hiring the best and brightest scientists and engineers to help solve these challenges. We are seeking candidates for our Post Graduate employment classifications (Post Doctoral, Post Master, Post Bachelors), student employment classifications (Undergraduate/Graduate Interns), as well as entry level research staff.
Our 4,200 researchers and staff are building the scientific foundation and creating the technologies necessary to advance our fundamental understanding of complex chemical, physical and biological systems. We are translating those discoveries into new tools and technologies for DOE, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Nuclear Security Administration, other federal agencies, state and local governments, and industry.
The research culture at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is best described by our scientists as a blend between academic research and industry. This provides a tremendous opportunity to conduct research and also have the resources necessary to get the job done. The research environment is truly unique and will allow you to solve problems in your desired discipline. View a . listing of open positions
Research Opportunities
The Energy Science & Technology Directorate creates scientific understanding and technology solutions for public and private sectors resulting in: Secure, clean, and affordable energy systems in a carbon-constrained world Energy Science & Technology
From local to global, the complex interactions between human activities and their effects on the environment play a pivotal role in energy, environmental, and economic security. With the new landscape of terrorist threats at home and abroad; with the need to sustain the critical balance between our activities and the environment; we are charting new environmental solutions every day. Environmental Technology
The Computational and Information Sciences Directorate develops and deploys leading-edge computing and scientific capabilities to advance the next generation of discovery in science, national security, energy, and the environment. Computational and Information Sciences
National Security supports the U.S. government's efforts to protect our homeland, ensure a strong and fast military, and fight proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Our broad range of scientific and engineering expertise enables us to deliver high-impact, practical solutions to our clients. National Security
The Fundamental Sciences Directorate is the basic research arm of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, serving as the cornerstone for new scientific knowledge and advancements. This division builds a more thorough understanding of physical, chemical, and biological processes. Fundamental Sciences
EMSL provides integrated experimental and computational resources for discovery and technological innovation in the environmental molecular sciences to support the needs of DOE and the nation. Environmental molecular Sciences Laboratory (EMSL)
Jobs at PNNL