Previous Next
Success Stories
Weight Watchers has helped millions of people to lose weight successfully. Find out how people like you reached their weight loss goals. These success stories fit Weight Watchers into their lives and you can too. If At First You Don Succeed/a> Briony Feels Fitter and Healthier! Suzanne's 4st Lighter! Anna Is Getting To Goal
Recipes
Broth Fondue Frozen Berry Yogurt Chicken and Vine Tomatoes Eggs Baked in Roast Ham
Be a Valentine's Vamp
Nicky Hambleton-Jones from Channel 4's 10 Years Younger dishes out some of her hottest tips on how you can dare to wear red. Find out more
Exercising Together
Personal trainer and fitness expert on our fitness DVDs, Caroline Sandry, gives us tips for exercising with your partner. Find out more
Latin American Dancing
How do you fancy trying something that involves dressing up, getting close and working out your brain and your muscles? Find out more
Skiing
Once you've been bitten by the skiing bug it becomes a way of life. So get down to your dry ski slope to have a go. Find out more
What is Weight Watchers?
Weight Watchers, the global leader in weight management services, is helping millions of people worldwide to lose weight. Find out more
Start Losing Weight Today
Weight Watchers Meetings
Enjoy weekly motivation from your Leader and discover real life inspiration to help you reach your weight loss goals.
Go now
Weight Watchers Online
Follow our plan step-by-step completely online, with interactive tools, helpful ideas and advice, recipes, workout videos and more. Click the button today, sign up and save 0 off our 3-month Payment Plan*
Sign up now!
ou pay 9.95 for 3-months, a 0 saving off our current 3-month prepayment plan. avings for the 3-month savings plan are calculated based upon our standard monthly plan rates, which include a 9.95 initial subscription fee and monthly fees of .95 per month. f you would rather subscribe to our 1 month plan (currently 9.90), please log in to the My Profile section on our site and change your billing option our subscription will be automatically renewed at the end of your plan period (1 or 3 months) at the standard monthly rate (currently .95) until you cancel. he offer is available only for Weight Watchers Online subscribers in the UK, who complete the full term of the payment plan chosen. o qualify for savings, you must complete the full term of the 3-month savings plan. his offer is not available to subscribers who are reactivating an old account. his offer cannot be transferred, combined with other offers, applied to renewals or redeemed for cash. ffer ends at midnight on 31 March 2009, though may be withdrawn at any time before this date without notice. rices are subject to change at any time. Your statutory rights are unaffected. Void where prohibited. ffer available to subscribers in UK only excluding the Channel Islands.
* Weight Watchers Online: Save 0 Off Weight Watchers 3-Month Plan