Child Pornography on the Internet
This section will provide information about the growing problem of child pornography, how to help protect children from it, how to fight it, and symptoms of victims to watch for. It provides an overview of what laws have been passed and what the current status of these laws are, and it offers several resource sites to help you educate yourself and your students on how to stay safe online.
Fraud
Anyone can become a victim of computer fraud.  It is a threat to anyone that uses the Internet.  Educators can become aware of how to teach students not to believe everything they find on the Internet and make critical choices about what information they give out about themselves. 
Hacking
Hacking is an act by people who have an extensive knowledge about how programmable systems work.  Hacking is not considered a bad thing by all crowds.  Educators could help potential hackers avoid getting into trouble by having open discussions about computer ethics.  Find out more information about hacking.
Online Harassment
Inappropriate contact with outside Internet users is a growing concern among teachers who use Internet-based communications such as online chatting, instant messaging and email. This addendum discusses the latest issues relating to this topic and provides useful tips and resources for teachers who are considering using these technologies for their classroom instruction.
Pedophilia on the Internet
This section will provide you with information about pedophiles and explain why this is a growing problem.There is information about how and where pedophiles operate, factors that increase a child vulnerability, ways to help educate children and their parents, and how law enforcement officers are working to protect children.It offers resources to help an educator become aware and teach children and their families to become more aware so that they can protect themselves.  
Software Piracy
The presence of software in our schools is becoming more prevalent. This section will give you a definitive resource for teachers and administrators who are understandably overwhelmed by the variety of software licenses out there. Look here for more information on how to maintain and purchase the most useful license for your school.