Need a Cheap Hotel Near Orlando Orange County Convention Center?
()
for an interactive map powered by Google for directions to the Orange County Convention Center. Click here
Orlando Orange County Convention Center South and West Concourses are located on International Drive, convenient to I-4 and Route 528 (The Beachline Expressway).  The North Concourse entrance is on Universal Boulevard, also convenient to I-4 and Route 528 (The Beachline Expressway).
The Orange County Convention Center (OCCC) is a world unto itself and bills itself as he Center of Hospitality  Orlando Florida is the best place to hold a convention; it just about begs you to bring the entire family with you!  With the abundance of family style hotels, variety of restaurants, the miles and miles of shopping and all of the theme parks and family attractions!
For those exhibiting or attending a convention, event or trade show at the OCCC, the following amenities are available (some charges may apply):
ATM
Valet Parking
Wireless Internet Access
Not to be outdone, the Orange County Convention Center is pleased to provide catering and restaurant service with their in-house evy Restaurants  There are three restaurant locations, all with seated service and a view of the exhibit halls below.  The Northside and Southside Restaurants both feature full bar service, wood-burning stoves and Levy Restaurants Chef Table.  The Osprey Cafalso offers full bar service and Panini sandwiches, always prepared fresh!  Hours of operation will coincide with show activity.  A quick bite in the food court or a cup of coffee at one of the concession stands is always an option.  Be sure to explore the exhibit areas, as there are usually portable food carts nearby!
For information about meetings and special events at Orlando Orange County Convention Center, please visit the website link at the bottom of this page.
Our properties are conveniently located near all area attractions and activities.  Each hotel is staffed with friendly and experienced personnel and it is their goal to help make your visit a memorable one.  All stays are eligible for participation in either the Choice Privilegesor Wyndham Rewardsprograms.