Feb. 5, 2009No Comment
“I have no mouth, but I must scream Harlan Ellison
My first published newspaper story didnt even have my byline on it, but it led to having a bounty being placed on my head.
The story was about my experience working undercover in a garment sweatshop, where I detailed labor law violations and unsafe working conditions.
It was part of a weeklong series that ran in my hometown newspaper, and it was an assignment that I worked on while on winter break from journalism school.
The series resulted in a number of sweatshops being shut down by the state, and my mother not speaking to me for a month, because I was making trouble for some of her friends, who owned and ran some of these establishments.
I later learned that a group of these shop owners had placed a reward for information on the mole who exposed their illegal practices, and my mother feared for my life. But by that time, I was safely back in school.
Since then, most of my stories havent generated that kind of reaction, but that sweatshop assignment opened my eyes to the power of the press, as well as different reactions to what journalists do.
It also made me realize how many stories of peoples lives and experiences are never told, and that there are many people whose voices are never heard.
If, as former Washington Post editor Phil Graham once claimed, Journalism is the first rough draft of history, my colleagues and I work hard every day to help write it.
All the stories we write, the photos that we take, the art and the graphics that we create  all that work goes into creating a portrait of a community  what people in Colorado are doing, thinking and talking about at a given point in time.
Since coming to the Rocky in 1987, I have spent most of my time as a night general assignment reporter. That means I cover a wide range of subjects, from shootings to accidents, public hearings to demonstrations and everything in between.
I have covered some of the biggest news stories in the state. Some were tragic (crash of Continental 1713, Storm King Mountain fire, JonBenet Ramsey murder, Columbine High School shooting) and some were historic (Summit of the Eight, visit of Pope John Paul II, the Democratic National Convention).
Theres an old exhortation to writers: Make your story sing. I could never quite master that ability  to make a story so readable that it sticks in the mind, like a song that you cant get out of your head.
But I have a different take on that saying  I like to think that our stories represent different voices of a variety of people who want to be heard.
Sometimes, it may sound like the Tower of Babel, with many voices speaking all at once, sometimes over one another, creating a cacophony. But I believe that all those different voices, can be transformed into a glorious choir.
You may or may not like what you hear, but what we do at the paper is composing a new piece every day, bringing all the different voices together to produce beautiful music.
If the Rocky closes, life will go on, but it will never quite sound the same.
“I felt a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of voices cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced.” Obi Wan Kenobi, Star Wars
Yes, we're still here
Our owner, E.W. Scripps, has announced the Rocky is for sale, not that it's closing. It set a deadline of mid-January for offers from potential buyers. January has come and gone, and Scripps only will say that the sale process is ongoing. It has not ever been announced that the Rocky is closing. Meanwhile, we continue to produce our newspaper and Web site every day, we're going to spring training to cover the Rockies and we're planning for the NFL Draft in April. So we'll say it once more: The Rocky is still here. Through our efforts and yours, we are working to make sure we can say that for years to come.
Testimonials
More testimonials
What you can do to help
listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper Preservation Act.
reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the board of E.W. Scripps
, send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts
a newspaper.Buy