[] edit Overview
Full Cabinet Image
At the time of this writing is based on with a Linux Kernel of 2.6 or greater running in the X-console or using frame-buffer support.UbuntuMAME Ubuntu Edgy Eft 6.10
Much of this text is based off of the work of Peter Enzerink's . debMAME
UbuntuMAME uses and , both of which provide direct control of video hardware to allow the use of a variety of computer monitors and even old TVs or real arcade hardware! UbuntuMAME uses version 0.106 as its core emulator. Note that this is a number of versions behind the latest official release of . 0.106 was the last version of MAME that has been ported by the team. There are currently no plans for further releases of . Version 0.106 supports a few thousand different ROMS, including all of the classic games we grew up with. Users that feel the need for anything more recent (after the mid to late 1990's) are encouraged to look at [] or []. AdvanceMAME AdvanceMENU AdvanceMAME MAME AdvanceMAME AdvanceMAME MAME for MS Windows SDL-MAME for Linux
The expected outcome of the configuration steps detailed is a machine that primarily uses support and boots semi-automatically into . Any intended deviation from this outcome may invalidate some of these instructions. I will also cover some of the need-to-do tasks to make your installation of AdvanceMAME/MENU completely usable without a keyboard (arcade cabinets). frame-buffer AdvanceMENU
[] edit Suggested Hardware / Requirements
Cropped Control Panel
These steps are presented as separate pages to go a bit easier on your printer. Some of them are very easy to follow on screen on a second machine, others are more handy to have as a printout. Also, I'm by nature a lazy person, and I prefer not to scroll unless necessary. Also note that newer versions of Ubuntu may work with very little change.
Also note that this how-to is provided as a completely free service. These instructions very well may fail miserably, giving you a non-functional system. It would be in very poor form to attempt this on a desktop that you use as an everyday workstation. This is intended for a system. Equally horrendous would be attempting this on a laptop - I can't imagine it going well. Finally, if you find an error please . I'd love to keep this up-to-date, and since my system works well right now, I'm going with the "if it isn't broken" clause.stand alone contact this Wiki's Primary Author
Checklist:
* Ubuntu Edgy Eft 6.10 or greater   * BIOS configured to boot from CDROM  * Minimum 1.5GHz CPU, preferred 2.4HGz CPU, desired 3.2+GHz CPU (I have a AMD 2200+, 512MB of RAM)  *  (I have a onboard Nvidia GeForce 2)  * Decent sized PC monitor. CRT recommended, YMMV on a TFT (I am using an old Apple Studio Scan 21")  * Internet connection and DHCP server  * Minimum of six to eight hours of spare time. This can be over the course of a few days. The actual build processes may take hours or even days depending on the power of the destination machine. Please note that you will not be required to complete everything in one sitting. Install CD Compatible graphics card
Additional Features & Components:
* Emulate Atari 2600 and Nintendo NES 8 bit games  * Allow the machine to operate as a stand-alone home jukebox  * Setup a ACT-LABS Light Gun (I believe they don't sell the model I have any more, but I'll include some information)