Research
Use of recycled PVC granules saves 94% of carbon emissions(14/05/2008)
Manchester, England, UK: Manufacturing new building products from recycled PVC-U has about 6% of the global warming impact of using virgin polymer, according to new calculations by plastic recycler, Axion Recycling.
Axion says it came to its conclusion on the global warming impact of collecting and recycling end-of-life PVC using updated information from DEFRA on CO2 emissions and data on power consumption and other energy uses at a typical UK PVC recycling facility.
The company claims that collecting and mechanically recycling one tonne of recovered PVC, which can directly substitute virgin polymer in a new application, will generate about 120 kg CO2 per tonne of PVC recycled. By comparison, producing one tonne of virgin PVC from its primary raw materials (salt and oil) will generate about 1,900 kg of CO2 emissions (latest eco-profile data from Plastics Europe). Using the recycled PVC chip effectively creates a 94% saving in CO2 emissions compared to production of virgin PVC polymer.
Most recycled PVC can be re-used as a clean chip to substitute virgin polymer so there are fewer melting costs. This helps to reduce the carbon impact of the recycled material compared to virgin says Axion.
Recovinyl
The company, which administers the Recovinyl PVC-U recycling initiative in the UK, says this finding strengthens the argument for greater use of recyclate in new items, such as PVC-U window and door profiles.
An added benefit is that manufacturers can develop products to attract eco-conscious consumers, as well as save on escalating raw material costs given the current record oil prices, says Roger Morton, Axions Commercial Director.
In 2007, more than 40,000 tonnes of waste PVC-U was recycled in the UK, much of it from end-of-life windows and doors, according to Axion.
Recovinyl is funded by the PVC industry body Vinyl 2010 formed to demonstrate commitment to sustainable development and encourages greater recycling of post-use plastic from items as diverse as end-of-life window and door frames to cable management products, flooring and pipes.
2007 PVC recycling
The 40,000 tonnes of end of life PVC that were recycled through the Recovinyl system in the UK during 2007 will have saved up to 71,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions on the assumption that the majority of this material will have been used in applications that directly substitute virgin polymer.
Roger Morton says the carbon credentials of even virgin PVC are better than for other polymer types, The carbon impact of making new PVC-U is lower than for other types of polymer because it is made partly from salt and partly from oil. Most other polymer types are made entirely from oil.
Another advantage is that PVC is a long-life material that can be recycled up to ten times without any loss in performance, making it ideal for use in new building products such as window and door profiles, fascias and soffits.
The PVC-U industry is continually looking to develop new products from recycled material, such as cladding and window cills made from 100% recycled PVC-U. Earlier this year, low-maintenance building materials group Epwin Group unveiled its fully recycled PVC-U window at Eco-Build, proving that a new plastic window could be made solely from post-consumer waste.
Similarly, systems supplier Profile 22 produces a new recycled composite material (RCM) profile reinforcement made from post-consumer PVC-U waste, closing the loop on the recycling process and delivering a wide range of benefits in replacing steel and aluminium sections in the window construction process.
The technology exists to produce building products made from 100% recycled PVC-U, allowing the UK construction industry to demonstrate a truly sustainable way forward, added Mr Morton. 
Further information