Preparing Individuals, Families, Neighborhoods, Schools and the Workplace for the next Tornado
Florida's American Red Cross encourage: to participate in a at least yearly. chapters
Individuals
IF A TORNADO STRUCK WOULD YOU BE PREPARED?
WOULD YOU KNOW WHAT ACTIONS TO TAKE?
In Florida, tornadoes strike all too often. Planning and practice are keys to tornado safety. Whether in homes, neighborhoods, schools or the workplace, everyone should have a plan in place for severe weather. The gives Floridians a chance to realistically test their plans and determine whether or not they are prepared.Florida Tornado Drill
Prepare
Before the drill inform family members, friends, neighbors and / or co-workers to prepare for the drill.
Review and refine your Disaster Plan.
Consider becoming a: Disaster Resistant Neighborhood
Clicking on Tornado will assist you in identifying your risk to Tornadoes.
Clicking on Tornado will provide you with preparedness information regarding Tornadoes.
Test Your Preparedness Level
YES
NO
Do you have a in your home and / or office to monitor the weather? NOAA Weather Radio
Do you have a in your home / office where you can evacuate to during a tornado? safe place
Do you have a Disaster Response ? Plan
Do you have a Disaster Supplies ? Kit
Do you have an emergency Communications ? Plan
      
TORNADO DRILL TIMELINE
You can facilitate a Tornado Drill at your office or in your home at anytime. Florida's 2007 Hazardous Weather Awareness Week presents a perfect time to become better prepared by conducting the following short activity.
Tornado Watch
At 9:00AM a is issued by the National Weather Services.Tornado Watch
Designate authority (coordinator). This will be the individual who is responsible for coordinating any activities associated with your Disaster Response Plan.
Coordinator should announce to family members, friends, neighbors and / or co-workers.Tornado Watch
How will your organization announce a ?Tornado Watch
Everyone should evaluate tornado vulnerable areas and be prepared to evacuate those areas.
Tornado Warning
is issued when a tornado or the formation of a tornado has been detected..
The National Weather Services issues a at 9:10AM and you are within the general path of the tornado. - Remember aTornado WarningTornado Warning
The coordinator will determine the threat. Large, dangerous springtime tornadoes in Florida almost always move from the west to the east. However, smaller tornadoes that form in the midsummer months along the sea breeze can move in almost any direction. The same is true for tornadoes that form as a tropical storm or hurricane approaches the state.
Upon determination of immediate threat, the coordinator will give the "take shelter" or "duck and cover" command.
Termination Of Watch And Warning
The coordinator will give instructions to return to normal activities.
Wrap Up - After The Drill
Following the drill, assess and revise your Disaster Response Plan as needed. white