Another dropping from the tn12.18 bot. These things (along with qm207) must be on a timer. -- 14:48, 1 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Maybe the cabal thinks we're not being productive enough. 19:15, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Cernen Xanthine Katrena
[] edit definition of reticular lamina is what?
[] edit Morrowind
Where is the island with the woman who you are meant to save to get Azura's Soulgem?
And where is the GOOD BEAST in Soltheim that you are meant to kill to do the Beast Stone Quest?
See , Wikipedia's not the best place for this sort of thing. But there is also a huge pile of helpful links at . Hope that helps. 13:51, 1 March 2006 (UTC) GameFAQs The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind Proto ||
[] edit on "Dexter" Television
Is going to be on sometime in ? If it is, is his name going to be "Dexter Perkins"? "Dexter" television 2006
Do you mean "Is going to be on commercial broadcast television (as opposed to cable/satellite) ?" ? 00:36, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Dexter's Laboratory StuRat
Also what country? 11:26, 3 March 2006 (UTC) b_jonas
[] edit Deja-vu and sickness
Hii... This might seem to be weird.. but everytime i get a feeling of deja-vu... i get a nauseating feeling in my stomach and my head spins a little.... it only lasts for a second or two.... and then i feel completely fine again.... i've had this for years... and when i was a kid i actually used to vomit from the nausea... even though now its not much of a problem anymore i still wonder why it happens to me... i've asked a lot of people but even though they told me about their deja-vu expiriences...none of them have ever reported the sickness acompanying it.... just wondered if you can help me find an answer......i checked the article too..nothing in it... Thanks a lot
| 19:39, 1 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
It would be better to ask a doctor if you are worried about this or if you are looking for a cure but it sounds like to me. I know that foods that I have eaten when I was very sick make me feel nauseous when I see them once again. It wasn't the food that made me feel ill the first time, it was a disease but I have been subconciously conditioned to associate certain foods with sickness. Perhaps you had feelings of deja-vu when you were sick once and now the conditioned stimulus causes an unconditioned response. 20:27, 1 March 2006 (UTC) Classical conditioning Trngl999
I'd probably think about talking to a doctor if it happens with any frequency. It is probably nothing but in these sorts of things there is always the off-chance it could be something serious that early detection would really be helpful with. A doctor will probably have you run a routine head scan which would just make sure everything was in the place it ought to be. -- 02:59, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
Yeah... probably i'll do that.... Thanks a lot..... does anybody else have any suggestions??? | 06:13, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
[] edit Wining offers
Hi, I would like to know what does some sites gain by telling u that when u register then send an invitation to this site to a number of people u'd win a certain prize? Do they really give these prizes? It sound weird because this site doesn't contain any other material than the winning subject. Thx Yasmeen
Check for advertising. They might be using that to generate profit. Also check their terms and conditions: they might be selling e-mail addresses. 20:43, 1 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Also, I'll accept your wining offer. Red please. 21:02, 1 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Some are no doubt completely fraudulent offers. The company that makes the offer is in some country with lax law enforcement, so they get away with it. In other cases the offer is legit, but you must do something to get the prize, like fill out a lengthy survey. If they say you "could" win a prize, that means you have only a slight chance of winning, in addition to having to do crap. 00:31, 2 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Counter-decapitation unit
The article state that the Nighthawks Force () is a counter-decapitation unit. What exactly does it mean? list of special forces units Taiwan
They glue people's heads back on ? LOL. But seriously, "decapitation" in a military sense means destruction of the command and control of an opponents forces. Therefore, I would think an anti-decapitation unit would protect the command and control of a friendly nation. For example, by keeping in office in if a Muslim fundamentalist revolution breaks out there, since having the fundamentalists succeed and gain control of that country's nuclear weapons would be a very bad thing. 00:23, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Pervez Musharraf Pakistan StuRat
This appears to be a very Taiwanese term (on Google) as in: "Decapitation strategies short-circuit command and control systems, wipe out nationwide nerve centers and leave the opponent hopelessly immobilized. Many military observers say China is very likely to use this strategy to invade Taiwan by seizing its center of power, Taipei and its top leaders." -- 02:45, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
killers armed with . 20:10, 2 March 2006 (UTC) tiddlywinks
Slumgum
For one example, I searched Google for the phrase "New York Fire Department" plus "pay". Following links off the second hit led me to , which says that the starting salary for a New York City firefighter is $32,724 plus up to $6,500 in differentials (whatever those are) and other pay. That's in US dollars, of course. Incidentally, they only accept US citizens; I have no idea why. --Anonymous, 07:12 UTC, March 2, 2006. this page
A lot of firefighters are volunteers. Search for 'volunteer' on the article. 08:35, 2 March 2006 (UTC) firefighter DirkvdM
differentials would probably be extra pay for different parts of the shift. You might get a $1 an hour extra for 6:00 pm - midnight and $2 an hour for midnight to 8:00 am. Things like that. 10:31, 2 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Don't drink.
If you drink, don't drive.
And if you drink and drive, don't park, because accidents cause people. 19:17, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Cernen Xanthine Katrena
[] edit ethnicity of winky wright
what ethnicity is ronald lamont "winky" wright(the boxer)?
should give you an idea. 01:31, 2 March 2006 (UTC) This
[] edit Asian Language
Hi,my question is:What Oriental or Asian language i should learn?because i want to speak another language rather than English,please help me THANKS!
Lord Lutz
This is a question you should answer yourself. It seems you've narrowed your new language to an Asian one. Ask yourself if you want to travel to a specific country, or will ever to speak a foreign language. That should help you answer. And sign your questions with four tildes (~~~~). 01:25, 2 March 2006 (UTC)need
Slumgum
For no particular reason other than its fun-sounding name, I suggest Obo Manobo. -- 04:45, 2 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
The economic biggies are Mandarin or Japanese, obviously (as I understand it, the language of Indian commerce is English). But then, there are squillions of others you might consider - Korean, Arabic, Malay/Indonesian, and so on. Be warned that learning an Asian language is generally harder than a European one (for a native English speaker) because most are written in non-Latin scripts. -- 06:28, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
I disagree a bit with that. The more significant thing is whether it's an ideographic script or phonetical. If it's the latter it's just a question of learning a few dozen characters, which isn't much memorization within the context of learning a language. OTOH, some people find it very easy to learn chinese characters, although it's still a lot more work. Using the Latin alphabet does mean less work overall of course, but it has it's drawbacks, since it can lure you into a false sense of familiarity. The letters are the same but the pronunciation can vary widely, and at least in the beginning you'll often find yourself slipping up and using your native pronunciation. -- 07:19, 2 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
If you just want any language but don't want it to be too hard, try . That's relatively simple because it's a lingua franca, originally a second language to all of its speakers (before it became the national language of Indonesia). Also it's spoken by hundreds of millions of people (and is almost the same). And Indonesia is a nice country to visit (although lately that's become a bit more difficult). 08:40, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Indonesian Malay DirkvdM
You didn't say your criteria, but if it's likelihood of being used, choose among those with the highest number of speakers, that would be , and . For business use, I agree much Indian business is conducted in English, but certainly not all is, and knowing the native language of people you are doing business with is an advantage. India and China's economies are of course growing very quickly so there's plenty of opportunity there. But like others said it doesn't matter how many speakers there are if you don't ever plan to go to those countries. Hindi has the advantage of being much easier to learn, and there's tons of films to watch. The sound system is fairly straightforward, and the writing system is very logical. - 15:24, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Mandarin Hindi Hindi Taxman
Talk
[] edit Old playstation one roms?
I was wondering if anyone knew a reliable place to download old playstation one roms. I am looking for a game called Taregoro - Tarepanda no Iru Nichijou, and can't find it anywhere. Is there a place I can buy games like this?
To try and buy the game I would suggest . It might help if you used the English name whenyou are searching. 10:23, 2 March 2006 (UTC) this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
FYI: Playstation ROMs are called ISOs and they're anywhere from 500-700mb large. Your best bet is to buy and try using that, along with a proper BIOS image, to do your emulating. 19:20, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Bleem! Cernen Xanthine Katrena
[] edit Free VoIP-style PC-to-Landline service?
Is there a free service that will let me call landline phones from my PC with a mic? I'm in Australia, so I need to call Aussie landlines.
There are such services available, but they are not free. or can do what you want. They are significantly cheaper than conventional providers for calls to non-local landlines. -- 06:34, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Engin GoTalk Robert Merkel
[] edit British European Airways flight numbers in 1952
We have an article on its successor airline, . If you're looking for some notable (for the wrong reasons) British European flights, take a look at in 1958 and in 1972. Flybe Munich air disaster British European Airways Flight 548
And if you had read the top of the page, you would have seen that this is a search engine. | 14:33, 2 March 2006 (UTC)not QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit Dogs sticking their heads out of car windows.
Whenever I take my dog (a bichon frise) for a drive, he sticks his head out of the car window. I immediately close the windows, but I'm wondering why he does this? Does he like the wind in his ears, is he trying to see something, or is he delightfully quirky?
Interesting question. Could be many reasons
- The idea of wind brushing past him is rather a strange sensation, which usually doesn't happen (unless he spends all his life in a car)
- He's hot and wants to cool down
- Is looking around
I'm no dog expert, have you tried asking him? 14:21, 2 March 2006 (UTC) -Benbread
I can't believe we actually have an article on this: . | 14:35, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Human-animal communication QuantumEleven (talk)
Ohmygod, that article is something else! Imagine keeping a straight and serious neutral tone while expressing whether Star Trek characters can talk to their cats. It's Wikipedia gone wild! -- 14:44, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
He may indeed by delightfully quirky, but not because he likes to stick his head out the car window; lots of dogs like to do that. There are some theories about why dogs do this . It isn't terribly safe, because any type of flying debris could get in your dogs ear, eye or mouth. Closing the window is indeed the right thing to do, assuming the dog's head is no longer in the way. It's probably OK to keep the window down just a bit so he can still get all those smells flying by. -- 14:49, 2 March 2006 (UTC) here LarryMac
But has anyone ever noticed that when you blow air from your mouth on the dogs face....he tries to take a piece out of you.....!! But they seem to enjoy the wind while riding in a car... !!! | 15:19, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
My dog used to enjoy sitting in front of the fan in our living room. 17:56, 2 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
My dog sits on the prow of the cottage boat when we zoom along, to the point of being dangerous, so we have a kid spotter. I don't want to live with a wave knocking her off, right into the prop! -- 18:05, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Just speculating, but wouldn't a dog be receiving more sensory stimulation by having its head out the window? Couldn't it just be enjoying all of the scents it's receiving? | 17:22, 6 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
Given how sensitive a dog's nose is, I always imagine it must be someone like being on speed (or somethng) - a huge sensory overload. 18:00, 7 March 2006 (UTC) For great justice.
From my experience, most dogs love to stick their heads out of windows. I myself enjoy wind, but do not enjoy being blown at by a person. ~Megan (April 2007)
[] edit Animals getting sick with humans?
I know humans can get sick from animals... But can animals get sick from humans? What types of diseases and what type of animal? Thanks!
(reformatted anon question ) i ff
That's a great question. "I had a cat once, but I couldn't keep him. He was allergic to humans." 16:47, 2 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
Well any disease that can travel from animals to humans can probably travel the other way, eventually. Diseases like are transfered by mosquito (and affects birds, humans, horses, other animals?) but other disease are caused by parasites that require different animal hosts at different life stages like . Our articles on and are rather poor. 16:58, 2 March 2006 (UTC) West Nile virus Broad fish tapeworm vector (biology) host (biology) Rmhermen
Here's a news article about it . Check out the pic of a cat using an inhaler! -- () 17:49, 2 March 2006 (UTC) [2] Uthbrian talk
Yes, animals can contract diseases from humans, both bacterial and viral infections. The diseases vary from animal to animal. For instance, the is almost unique among animals in being able to contract from humans. The effects also vary within strains of the same disease, for instance the strain of the Ebola virus kills primates but not humans. -- 18:28, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Armadillo leprosy Reston BluePlatypus
A cat in Germany died from the other day, although probably it contracted it from a bird, rather than a person. | 16:37, 3 March 2006 (UTC) avian flu User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit How far it is from Turin to Flachau
According to , it's 318 miles / 512 km from to Turin. 20:59, 2 March 2006 (UTC) this Pongau
Is there a method to run games from the playstation one on the psp?
yes. because if you go to the internet you can do it
[] edit computer as host
I have windows XP, and I want to put my best PC as host of the lan so the other PC of the lan will be able to use the internet too, but when finish to configure the pc in the Network Setup Wizard, the program give me a error message and don't put my PC as a host. What I do?????? Please help.
What did the error message say? Without knowing that, it's almost impossible to say what went wrong. Having said that, it should be quite simple to set up, just enable Internet Connection Sharing on the internet connection of the better PC, and then connect the computers together as a LAN. IIRC, it should do the set-up automatically. -- | 23:32, 2 March 2006 (UTC) AJR Talk
The error message is (translated): Its not possible to conclude the Network Setup Wizard. And I tried to make like you said and doens't worked too.
see . - 21:57, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Ice dancing LambaJan
It doesn't say how it developed. 22:45, 2 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
Well, someone walked onto some ice and started slipping and sliding all around the place, so he pretended he was dancing, hoping that wuld make him look less silly. It caught on. (I made this up :) ). 07:37, 3 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
See (also ). -- 12:42, 3 March 2006 (UTC) figure skating#History history of dance Shantavira
People too lazy for figure skating. -- 19:26, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Nelson Ricardo
[] edit During Closing Ceremonies in what order do the athletes enter the stadium?
Unsigned q. by
User:MJLuzzi
Altogether in a big mob - but the massed flag carriers come in first. 23:11, 2 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
In opening ceremonies they enter in order of their country's English Nato name. So the comes in at "F" for "Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" as Nato calls it. As for the closing ceremony, as I recall, they usually just pile in, as Rmhermen says, above. 00:17, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Republic of Macedonia
Slumgum
No, I'm pretty sure the opening ceremony order is in alphabetical order in the Host country's language. 00:38, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Lisiate
Lisiate is right - assuming we're talking the Olympics here. Greece always first (as nation responsible for founding the games) then other countries alphabetical in host language, the host nation last. ... 01:18, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
In the Closing Ceremony, the flags are brought in in alphabetical order by the language of the host country, except for Greece first, the home country last, and the host country of the next Olympics next-to-last, but the athletes just come in willy-nilly. | 16:39, 3 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit Casino
Why there are no casinos in Mexico?
Most probably because they're illegal under Mexican Law? Many countries don't have casinos for this reason. 00:40, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Lisiate
Why illegal : plenty of money games were illegal for moral (easy money vs. impoverishment) or security (fights between players ...) reasons. Card playing was once a crime in some countries. Then the treasury understands that there is matter for taxes ... and the game becomes moral. -- 19:24, 4 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit Are there any real radio shows like Frasier's?
Are there realy "radio psychiatrists" like Frasier Crane in the TV sitcom ? Could anyone tell me about one (that's preferably got a podcast or is downloadable)?Frasier
isn't really a psychiatrist (her doctorate is in physiology), but she plays one on the radio. In other words, she handles calls similar to those placed to Frasier, but without having his qualifications. For this she's been . Also, although I didn't see every episode of , I doubt that he ever . 08:05, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Dr. Laura criticized Frasier posed nude JamesMLane
   t c
Given a choice I'd take Laura naked instead of Frasier any day. (I almost wrote 'over' but decided 'instead of' would be clearer.) But at least she isn't the pointy-headed intellectual who loved to gloat from time to time. Both shows are good though. 08:28, 4 March 2006 (UTC)wondering if James has it bookmarked Mike
I'd never heard of Dr. Laura, but after reading her article, it's very clear that there's a Frasier character who is based on and parodies/satires her - , appearing in an episode of the same name.Dr. Nora
In my country (Finland) there used to be a popular radio psychologist, but then he quit the job and became a politician. Shame, because I liked listening to him. But his show was on from like 2 am to 4 am. 14:26, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Blueiris
[] edit Making espresso at home
I bought an espresso machine - one of the ones where you put the grounds in a filter and it drips down into the cups below. Unfortunately, the espressos it makes are nowhere near as thick and honeylike as those served in cafes. Is it possible to thicken my espresso using one of these machines, or even to get the red foam (crema)?
A Google search for turns up a number of links about making good espresso at home. Hopefully there will be some useful information for you; one key point seems to be that you get what you pay for when you buy a very cheap home espresso machine. -- 03:46, 3 March 2006 (UTC) home espresso Robert Merkel
Assuming you bought a pump-driven pressure , the five key factors for a good are the quality of the water, the quality of the coffee, the right pressure, the right temperature of the water (80 90 degrees Centigrade), and the coffee must be ground fine enough. If the pressure is too low or the coffee ground not fine enough, you won't get a . (BTW, if your crema is , something is wrong. It should be a light brown.) Also note that you don't get a with a . 09:05, 3 March 2006 (UTC) espresso machine espresso cremaredcrema stovetop espresso machine Lupo
I'd say it's a matter of how strong you make your coffee. I simply poor boiling water on ground coffee and then filter that. The simplest way to make coffee. Except I use a double the amount of ground coffee one normally uses. If on top of that I use just a tiny bit of water, I get better 'espresso' than one gets in a bar or restaurant. Of course the quality of the coffee is also important. I use coffee, which is . Most coffees are the inferior . Reading that last article I know understand why I don't get the crema. Then again I don't care. It's the taste that counts in the end. 12:56, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Max Havelaar Arabica robusta DirkvdM
Given hot water, good coffee and all, modeling shows that pressure is truly the key. If you pour water and it goes through too quickly, you get plain water. The drops will find multiple paths amongst ground coffee ; the longer the paths, the better the drink. The percolation should be slow to be effective. percolation
Try this : first press upon the ground coffee to eliminate air holes ; stop your espresso machine after one or half a minute. Then wait and start again ; coffee is glued and the pouring must be slower. -- 19:17, 4 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
These are all good tips, but your problem is that you bought the wrong machine. If the water drips down through the coffee , it's a drip filter. If pressure forces the water , you're making espresso. is my favourite type of home espresso maker - it only takes a few minutes and I get perfect crema every time. 01:31, 5 March 2006 (UTC)it is not espresso up through the coffee This Natgoo
DLL, my method is not percolation, it's more like the method of making tea. The water is exposed to the coffee at the right temperature (near boiling) and for as loing as you wish. Although my experience is that after a few second there is little improvement. Also, it's the simplest way to make coffee, so you can try that for free before you try anything else. All you need is a decent filter. At first I used a piece of coarse cloth in a sieve (a straining cloth). 10:09, 5 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit High School Newspaper
Hello, I am on the staff at my high school. For the April fools issue this year we are writing fake and real articles. I was wondering where I could find the legal aspects of a fake article. Thanks 01:56, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Zach
You might want to take a look at . 03:15, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Nihilartikel
How fake? Silly fake or believable fake? If the former, uncyclopedia.org will provide some inspiration ;) 10:09, 3 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
It would have helped if you had said what country you are in. But (disclaimer IANAL) I would think that there would not be too much problem with the fake articles. A lot of magazines and newspapers print April Fools articles without any legal problems. I would also suggest though that you stay away from articles that suggest your Principal is having an affair with the vice-principal and stuff like that. On the other hand an article suggesting that English classes will be cancelled because all the text-books have to be rewritten to remove British English would not really cause any leagl problems. 10:29, 3 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Have a look at The Onion () or if you are Australian, Chaser (). Both provide satirical news articles. - 10:52, 3 March 2006 (UTC) http://www.theonion.com/content/index http://www.chaser.com.au/ Akamad
It's also a good idea to explain what you did in the next issue. - | 10:53, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
Put in a headline that the word 'gullible' has been removed from the dictionary. -- 13:03, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
In Cleveland there are two competing free weeklies. One broke the story first. The other got jealous and made up a story about 'Shebron' who was apparently supposed to be a ladie's basketball phenom. They had photos and everything. Larger respectable papers were calling them up asking about how to reach her. They came clean the next week in page three. - 16:39, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Lebron James LambaJan
You might like to have a look at and some of the pages that link from it as well. ... 23:53, 3 March 2006 (UTC) April Fools Day Grutness
[] edit Stressing!
Hi. I am so stressed because when I'm 18 (i live in Australia) I wanna do my gap year in England, how can I do that, how can I find jobs and such over here over there, I am just so confused, I am one who likes to have their futur planned out.
And that's really good! So, you have any plans on specific things you'd like to do on England, such as jobs and etc? Depending of what are your specific goals, you can find easier ways to do things you want to. Provide more information so people can help you. 16:00, 3 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
Depending where abouts in Australia you are, there are different companies that deal with helping students find work overseas, just like you.-- 04:16, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Ali K
I live in Canberra and I just want to drandom jobs, maybe help out at schools.
You should have no problem finding work in a bar in England (like every other Australian here). Also I wouldn't be too fixed on : , and are nice too. 14:07, 6 March 2006 (UTC) England Scotland Wales Ireland AllanHainey
I go to in England, and we currently have a programme running where gap year students from a certain school in Australia (I can't remeber the name, I think it might be John Paul College) live here for a year, helping out with the kids, co-teaching sport lessons etc. Maybe you could investigate that. 15:49, 8 March 2006 (UTC) King Edward's School, Witley Vanderdecken
[] edit Christmas Dream
Please can any one help. I am driven to distraction to try to find the German words to the song A Christmas Dream which features on the soundtract of the Odessa File. I have the English words by Tim Rice and have the recording by Perry Como with the London Boys Choir. I cannot find any way to contact Andre Heller who wrote the German words So if anyone has either a copy of the words or an e mail address for Andre Heller I should be most grateful and can then get on with the rest of my life. many thanks -- 17:03, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Norvin
[] edit Mahatma Gandhi vs. Bill Nye the Science Guy
Who would win in fight of Mahatma Gandhi versus Bill Nye the Science Guy? Both have all resources available to them (Gandhi - followers, Nye - gadgets). This fight takes place on the deck of the starship enterprise, the good one with the A, NC-1701A. Captain Kirk is completely fine with this, and actually is in favor of the fight. Bill Nye built a time machine to go back in time and took Gandhi to the starship enterprise to fight him.
[preceding unsigned question by added 17:51, 3 March 2006 and retroactively edited several times since then: 18:25-18:32, 18:56-19:00] 204.38.36.31
Where is this fight taking place? Does Gandhi have his loyal followers? Does Bill Nye have his gadgets? 18:02, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
is dead. is still alive. So I'd say Bill Nye wins by default. 18:05, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Gandhi Bill Nye Chuck
Good point. I should have asked, where and is this fight taking place? 18:17, 3 March 2006 (UTC)when Keenan Pepper
Since Gandhi died before Nye was even born, the when quickly becomes irrelevant as well. | 18:31, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
Bill Nye built a freakin time machine dude.
In that case I'll have to go with chuck norris-- 20:31, 3 March 2006 (UTC) 64.12.116.199
Taking into account the edits made to the original question, Picard would never allow the two to fight on his bridge. He'd have Worf haul them both off to the brig before you could figure out who the winner was. 18:43, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Chuck
Which Gandhi? I had a classmate who can beat the sh*t out of Bill Nye. If you are talking of , I'm not so sure. doesn't stand a chance. () 18:47, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Gandhi Rahul Gandhi Sonia Gandhi deeptrivia talk
There can be no better answer to this sort of question than number 4 in . () 18:50, 3 March 2006 (UTC) this interview Steve Summit talk
I haven't a clue who Nye is, but if he'd physically attack Gandhi he'd look pathetic fighting someone who keeps on turning the other cheek. So Gandhi would be the moral victor. That was the core of his strategy. And of course his followers (true ones anyway) would one by one take his place in getting beaten, which would not just make Nye look even more pathetic but also wear him out. That is the way Gandhi's strategy managed to make his moral victories into physical ones. 13:04, 4 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
sez "if you think you're immune to flattery, it is because you did not meet the flattery you hope for". So the Nye guy (never heard of him) should devise a trick that would push Gandhi guy in true anger and desire to fight. A menace for his daughter ... tickles ... canadian jokes ? -- 17:14, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Someone ? DLL
This situation kinda reminds me of ... Man vs. Machine scenerio....and in the movie Man wins the battle... so i guess i'll go with Mahatma Gandhi... and also cause i dont know who Bill nye is....;-D......| 18:31, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Terminator Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
Seems this Nuy guy is pretty unknown for someone who is claimed to be famous in the article. :) 10:13, 5 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Put up for an AfD as unknown on the reference desk. 10:47, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Bill Nye CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit John Stossel or Bill Nye
Who is cooler on a scale from 1 to really goddam cool, John Stossel or Bill Nye?
Bill Nye. Stossel's moustache is impressive, but Nye is legend. -- ( ) 01:06, 4 March 2006 (UTC) User Talk
[] edit Gallery Row Building..
I am trying to find out if the Gallery Row Building at 409 7th St, NW in Washington DC has ever won an award for it's unusual design. I am thinking that it might have won an award as the building has a weird diagramal shape to it. To go further the steps inside go in a square shape. So far my search has come up with very little. Any help that you might be able to provide me would be very helpful.
Hey.....is your name Stephen Hosmer?? Just wondering... And can you tell us what kind of awards can that kind of building win...?? A google search for building awards gives a long list of Awards.... it would be easier if you can narrow down your search.... | 18:22, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
Yes, this is stephen Hosmer. Any help that you can provide me to find out information on which award this building might have won I really would appreciate the help.
Stephen Hosmer
[] edit Who Was Watts Branch
I am looking for detailed information on whom Watts Branch is named after. I believe that it might be named after a family who own land there in the late 1800's but I have no proof of that. For your information Watts Branch is a stream that begins in Maryland and ends in Prince Georges County. I really don't know much about the stream. My main purpose is to find out any information that might be available about the family who it might have been named after. I would like to receive some proof of it, if it is available in the sense of links.
The article of would help you out. -- 21:05, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Watts Branch User: Eric Hartley 12.18.90.130
Since that article doesn't exist yet, it really can't help much. The word "branch" can mean a stream or creek (see number 4 ), so I think Watts Branch was probably named after somebody named Watt or Watts. -- 21:18, 4 March 2006 (UTC) here LarryMac
I was able to find a showing a reference to Watts' Branch (note the apostrophe), and another showing the name in use in 1715, as well as evidence of a Daniel Watts as witness to several transactions in the area in 1711. Thus, I'd make a guess and say that it was named well before the late 1800's, although there may still have been Watts living in the area at that time. Both pages, by the way, make reference to a book called , by T.H.S. Boyd; however this book seems to be out of print. HTH HAND. -- 21:54, 4 March 2006 (UTC) genealogy page page The History Of Montgomery County, Maryland LarryMac
[] edit RUOK - Registered trademark violation
I did not find a way to contact anyone there by phone so I thought I would try this approach.
You have an article entitled RUOK (Are You OK?) which states that RUOK is a "is the common name for a service offered by many local communities that contacts the elderly or handicapped on a daily basis using a phone service"
Please note that the above statement is incorrect. RUOK , Are You OK? , Are YOu Okay? , etc is a registered trademark of Bruce L Johnson for a compterized telephone reassurance system and not a "common name" sor such a service.
Please remove or amend your article to reflect this legal infringement on my Registered Trademark.
If I am addressing this issue to the incorrect party, please inform me of where I should send this letter to correct the above sitution.
Please not your own statement below that "Content must not vilate any copyright" (ruok is copyrighted as well) "and must be verifiable."
Thank you,
Bruce L Johnson
Are you sure the trademark is registered? The finds three records for "RUOK", but none current. (Also, I'm not sure what you mean by "copyrighted as well", because unless I'm mistaken, you can't copyright individual words.) () 20:47, 3 March 2006 (UTC) USPTO search page Steve Summit talk
I didn't find it there either and the links on the page seem to be using it generically and with even more different spellings. 21:08, 3 March 2006 (UTC) RUOK Rmhermen
, a commercial site selling software for this, appears to be associated with Bruce L Johnson and uses Are You O.K.? throughout its site. 21:13, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Ruok.com Rmhermen
Dear Sir, We at Wikipedia realize that you have a serious problem. It seems that a simple Google search turns out all sorts of sites that use RUOK in a generic manner, including the name of a music band. As you are aware, the common use of a term weakens any claim of trademark (not copyright). We suggest that you have a lawyer send registered letters to all of these people. Our lawyers will only respond to a letter from a lawyer. -- 21:31, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
I found a record for but that's it. 21:50, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Are You OK? howch e ng
{} chat
Mr. Johnson, please note that you can request the immediate removal of a purported copyright infringement , or by writing to or contacting the by phone or fax. 09:07, 4 March 2006 (UTC) here Designated agent KWH
Trademark protection is not at all similar to copyright protection. However, you contact the Wikimedia Foundation about this issue at board@wikimedia.org . - 04:36, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Superm401 Talk
[] edit Puerperal fever
When I was born in England in 1935 my mother contracted Puerperal fever. I would like to know what medical treatment was given to patients suffering from Puerperal fever at that time. My mother was ill for 5 years and part of this time she was confined in a facility for the mentally ill. I cannot understand why this was done to her. I hope you can find something in your archives that will shed some light on this subject -- 20:29, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Diana1
is a bacterial infection contracted during childbirth due to tearing and disruption of membranes and normal immune defenses. There were no effective antibiotics in the 1930s. Women would either run a fever for a few days and then recover gradually (typically days to weeks), or die. It was a leading cause of maternal death in the days following childbirth. If you want to find out what the standard treatment was, look up puerperal fever in a British obstetric textbook from the 1930s. If you live in England you should have little trouble finding a hospital or medical school library that still has one you could look at. You can also find them in old book stores. I cannot think of any way that it could result in 5 years of illness culminating with involuntary confinement in a mental institution. Your family understandably dates the trouble to her childbirth, but the long term problems are likely not attributable to the puerperal fever. 20:57, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Puerperal fever alteripse
Perhaps yopur mother had some kind of mental problem as well as puerperal fever, like post-partum depression or something? (Not to say she was nuts or anything.)
[] edit Amazon Online
Can I Buy from Amazon Online by chick ? why Not ? what the alternative way instead of visa card Or Master card?
It depends on whether the young lady is willing to be used as a form of barter. 23:41, 3 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
This guy's a total sitting idol. 19:27, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Cernen Xanthine Katrena
Can you buy chicks from Amazon online? Do they take cheques? Why not? 23:49, 3 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
Click on the Help link, then Ordering -- "Amazon.com accepts American Express, Diners Club, Discover, JCB, MasterCard, Eurocard, Visa, Visa Check Cards, Amazon.com gift certificates, payment directly from your bank account, and checks, money orders, or cashier's checks denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on a U.S. bank. Additionally, we accept Borders Gift Cards and Waldenbooks Gift Cards as payment for qualifying orders. We do not currently accept international wire transfers or Smart Cards." -- 14:39, 4 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
P.S. I would assume there are similar links and terms for Amazon in other countries. -- 14:40, 4 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
[] edit Homosexuality
I have four questions to ask you about homosexuality:
1.Christians say that homosexuality is morally wrong.By that, are they saying or do they mean that it is wrong for a person to with someone of his or her same gender?fall in love
2.What do Christians(and other religious believers against homosexuality) believe causes homosexuality?
3.I've heard some people say that homosexuality is probably caused by one's genes.But have biologists actually any genes that causes homosexuality?discovered
4.If homosexuality is caused by one's genes, then that raises the question of some people have those genes.It is unlikely that homosexuality is inherited, and even if it is, there still remains the question of what had caused those 'gay genes' in the first place.So this raises an interesting question:whyCould it be possible that homosexuality is caused by some kind of genetic mutation?
23:47, 3 March 2006 (UTC) Bowei
Different Christian denominations have different views. I would consider myself very knowledgeable about the Roman Catholic Church, so I will answer your questions as they would. I was educated Catholic, and do not believe in its views about homosexuality, but I can still answer your questions like what they would say. 1) Catholics say that homosexuality is morally wrong, correct. They say that it is acceptable to find oneself homosexual, because they realize that people do have tendencies towards that, so they do not condemn that way of thinking. However, they do condemn acts of homosexuality as sinning. So if you do not do anything because of those desires, you are okay. The church tells homosexuals to take a vow of celibacy and live a celibate life. Previously, the church gave the option to those men to become ordained member of the priesthood. However, under Pope Benedict XVI, homosexuals are heavily discouraged from doing so. This may be in response to the child molestation claims. 2) Catholics believe that people are not always homosexual of their own fault. They say that people are influenced by today's society. God also has a hand in this - he may lead people to homosexuality as a test. 3) Although many gay people claim that they were born as they are, biologists have not found any "gay gene" in one's DNA. 4) Assuming homosexuality is caused by one's genetics, there would be a mystery as to what caused that. Being homosexual has no biological evolutionary advantage, in fact, it would have a direct disadvantage, as homosexual people are more unlikely to reproduce. This would therefore support the theorey of intelligent design, and that God gave people "gay genes" for a purpose. The church believes that God can lead people to homosexuality to test them. If homosexuality was a disorder, or a chronic disease, or something else medical, biologists would have found the cause by now. I hope I have helped - please ask with any more questions! -zappa 04:58, 9 March 2006 (UTC)
1) Not all Christians say that homosexuality is wrong. Parts of the Episcopal Church of the USA, for example, think it's OK (they even have a gay bishop -- ). So the answer would depend on which Christian subsect you're talking about. 2) Again, this depends on the denomination; but many fundamentalist ones believe that homosexuality is just a bad behavior, just like lying or stealing. 3) Some claim so, but this is disputed. See . Discovering a gene is not really a straightforward thing -- most genes tend to do different things under different circumstances. 4) All genes are caused by mutations. If homosexuality is genetic, it must be a gene that has two effects: one being homosexuality, which is obviously a disadvantage to reproduction, and another one that is an advantage to reproduction. For example, it has been proposed that a gene for male homosexuality might be beneficial for the reproductive success of women. -- 00:36, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Gene Robinson homosexuality Chl
Many Christian groups have said is that it is wrong to have sex with a person of the same sex. But afaik, no Christian groups have said it is wrong to simply be homosexual. Many people are homosexual by virtue of their feelings towards people of the same sex, without ever engaging in homosexual activity. Thoughts and feelings don't belong to the paradigm of right and wrong. 04:38, 4 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
I think these folks do believe that homosexuality is a sin. I think the real sin here is that a lot of "Christian" people have noting better to do than atttack homosexuals. 05:12, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Westboro Baptist Church CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
The causes of homosexuality have nothing to do with the morality of it. Assume there was unrefutable evidence it was genetic. Then the gay-bashers would say "See? It's an unnatural disease which must be cured!", and the other side would say "See? It's a natural mutation and not a choice, they should not be condemned". If there was unrefutable proof it was by choice, the gay-bashers would say "See? They choose to live in sin and should be condemened!" whereas the other side would say "See? It's a deep-seated personal conviction like religion, and should be respected". The causes of homosexuality have nothing to do with it. The fact that it's condemned in the Bible has little to do with it either, because the vast majority of 'Christians' attacking homosexuality do not uphold other biblical taboos (such as eating shellfish). In the end it's a question of if you're a tolerant person, capable of 'turning the other cheek' or if you're a self-righteous condemner of others (like the biblical Pharisees). -- 10:58, 4 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
I think your reply should read "The fact that it's <currently> condemned in the Bible..." because at one time slavery was condoned by the Bible, though not anymore. So it's quite possible in a few years the Bible may have changed again. 11:26, 4 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Shouldn't a book that is thosands of years old have made up it's mind by now? 13:12, 4 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Well, I believe I did point out the hypocrisy of selectively enforcing Biblical law? -- 14:17, 4 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
4) If (or insofar as) homosexuality is inherited one would expect that it would disappear over time. But if homosexuals are 'forced' to live straight lives (through peer pressure or worse) they would still get offspring and the 'condition' would persevere. So it's the ones who disapproved of homosexuality in the past who have brought present homosexuality about. And the present day 'gay bashers' are the ones who ensure it will not disappear. An ironic example of the general principle that one extreme brings about the opposite (action = reaction). 13:12, 4 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Both that question and that reply are wrong, though. It's made on the simplistic assumption that genes always control exactly one and only one thing. If that were the case, there wouldn't be any genetic diseases either. (Nor does it explain why there's homosexuality in animals) is an textbook example of a deadly genetic disease, which by that rationale could not possibly exist. It does though, because the gene gives increased resistance to malaria (see the article). So it's possible a 'gay gene' would bring some advantage. It could also be a . Or it could simply be the result of a random process, like with fingerprints. -- 14:17, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Sickle-cell disease phenotype BluePlatypus
And even if a 'gay gene' controlled only this one trait, it should not necessarily be expected to go away over evolutionary time. Theoretically, if the chances of survival of a homosexual's siblings or cousins - who carry on average 50% or 25% of the same genes - improve enough by having a close relative who does not reproduce but instead cares more for them, then the gene would be passed on from generation to generation by them, and homosexuality would not disappear. () 14:28, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Kin selection David Sneek
The life goal of every species on this planet is to reproduce. Two males cannot reproduce by themselves, neither can females, therefore homosexuality is not wat was intended for the human species; it is wrong. A shoe isnt intended to go on another shoe, that would be just wrong, it doesn't fulfil anything. Rather it is meant to go on a foot, where is can serve its purpose. I know this is a terrible example, its all i can be bothered thinking of right now as i looked at my feet for inspiration. But the same goes for people. A male and a female go together to serve a purpose. Two people of the same gender have no purpose. This doesn't tell u that homosexuality is morally wrong, all i am implying that there is no need for it. from a Christian persective it is morally wrong. but then let me remind u that the sin of homosexuality isnt any worse than say stealing candy. They are both equally as bad as each other and will both result in the person spending eternity in hell if they do not ask for forgiveness from God. And if any Christian or church claims that homosexuality is acceptable they are not truly Christians, rather they have created a new religion separate from Christianity. 4:54, 10 March 2006 (i doubt anyone will actually read this becoz i posted it so late) Im_in_ur_house
[] edit hyphen search
Are there any search engines that allow one to include/exclude punctuation such as hyphens? I would, for example, like to be able to search for or , to determine which use is prevalent. Google says that "Because some people spell hyphenated words with a hyphen and others with a space, Google searches for variations on any hyphenated terms." The search does differentiate between the two; although it returns no results for or , it gives 1165 pages for and 913 for . Even this differentiation would be useful, if a web-wide engine had it. 01:11, 4 March 2006 (UTC)"hip hop" -"hip-hop""hip-hop" -"hip hop" [3] Open Directory Project "hip hop" NOT "hip-hop""hip-hop" NOT "hip hop" hip hop hip-hop TheJabberwock
[] edit Type of hat
In this , what is Jessica Alba's hat called? I've narrowed it down to the or the , but can anyone answer definitively as to what it's called? -- 07:18, 4 March 2006 (UTC) MSNBC article flat cap Gatsby cap 65.95.201.46
If you'll take my word for it, it's a Gatsby cap. 13:10, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
Hey, Mark, bummer about your [ and ] keys. If they were working, we wouldn't have to take your word for it: ! () 16:01, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Gatsby cap Steve Summit talk
I think the questioner has already found that. 16:17, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
Oops! Duh. Right. (I'll go home now.) () 17:08, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
[] edit GameCube/PSone ventilation space
Both the PSone (older, fatter model) and GameCube have vents on the side through which air is expelled. How much space should I leave on the sides of these machines? I currently have them both in shelves where there's about 1.5-2 inches on either side -- is this OK, or am I likely to damage my machines? I appreciate any response, thanks. --Jenny McFarlane, Melbourne, Australia
Anything over an inch is usually fine. But any time you're concerned about something like this, you can always stick your hand into the space. If you feel nothing, or if it's merely warm, there's no problem. But if it's noticeably hot, you should probably get better ventilation. () 15:33, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
Its alright if you just leave some room on the sides for the air to circulate.....if you feel that the space is too small or something... you can direct a fan towards it..but 1.5-2 inches is quite fine... | 17:59, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
[] edit looking for a user
Sometime in the past month or so, I came across a wikipedia user page containing a nice rant about use of words like "popular" and "widely held" in wikipedia articles, as in "Brad Pitt is widely held to be one of the most popular actors." Anybody know who that user might have been? I think I wanna join their quest. (I'm hardly the first to point this out, but: statements asserting popularity are exquisitely unencyclopedic and vacuous. If the statement is true and the subject is popular, the reader probably already knows this and doesn't need to be told. If the reader know that the subject is popular, they should be learning this fact in e.g. magazine, not an encyclopedia; encyclopedias are not arbiters of popularity.) () 15:30, 4 March 2006 (UTC)doesn't People Steve Summit talk
WP search being on strike, I offer here an oogle search :
"Results 1 - 50 of about 134,000 from en.wikipedia.org for " -- 16:01, 4 March 2006 (UTC)widely held to be one of the most popular DLL
"Jock McTavish is one of the most popular American rappers" is a rather informative statement to me: not being a devotee of American rap, I have no idea who the most popular performers in that genre and country are, so it's quite nice to be told. Imprecise statements are not necessarily uninformative or unencyclopedic. 16:21, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
Mark is right. Whilst the amount of popularity is , someone is popular or famous can be . In 50 years time, how is anyone going to read a People magazine article on how famous Brad Pitt is? They might just need this info in an encyclopedia article. 16:33, 4 March 2006 (UTC)subjectivewhetherfactual
Slumgum
I wasn't trying to open that debate here! (And in that spirit I won't try to argue with either of the above.) I'm just looking for that user... () 17:17, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
Try asking around in all the user talk pages you can find and fix a note telling them to forward the msg to the all the users they know if dont know the answer to it...!! Best of luck,,:-D | 18:06, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
The problem with the phrase is "widely held". To be objective, a phease needs to be attributed to a source i.e. who thinks they're popular? (which makes is more encyclopedic) This is especially important with people who's popularity is disputed. - | 20:32, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
Some people on here are IMO much too quick to stamp on any adjective they deem "unencyclopedic" or "POV" so we have to resort to these phrases "widely held to be" "generally regarded as" to avoid them coming along and deleting any vaguely positive adjective. My particular bugbear is the impossibility of describing anything as "beautiful" on en:wikipedia (it doesn't seem to cause problems on other wikipedias). Someone is bound to delete it. I fail to see what is wrong with saying that "Cornwall has beautiful beaches" without having to add these qualifiers. But some people regard it as unacceptably subjective, unencyclopedic and POV. 03:17, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
It just dawned on me what Jayant was saying. Please don't suggest that Steve spams a whole bunc of users. It's likly to get him blocked. 12:05, 5 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
It if he were so stupid as to try it, please, not "it's likely"! :-) () 02:51, 6 March 2006 (UTC)would Steve Summit talk
Are you talking about ? 06:07, 6 March 2006 (UTC) weasel words KWH
Or . -- 17:49, 6 March 2006 (UTC) peacock terms Heron
Neither of those is the user page I was looking for, but they're both good pages to know about. Thanks. () 18:58, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
[] edit life existence
Do any body know about Siprits,ghosts?do they relly exist does any one has prove that they ever saw them or actually came across them.
Yes, some people know that they don't exist.
To the extent that beliefs obtained through human perception of evidence can be considered known.
Mark your words
People actually know a lot about ghost and spirits... but we can't be sure if they really do exist... there have been a lot of photographs and video evidence of ghosts... a simple google image search for "Ghosts" gives a lot of ghost photographs...but we still dont know if the photographs and videos are fake or real....i've seen tv shows where they demonstrate how a photograph of a ghost can be hoaxed quite easily...... if you wanna know the answer to this question.. ask yourself if you believe ,if god exists... according to you if He does...... then the Ghosts and the spirits must exist too...(To maintain the balance between Good and Evil :-D)....Best of luck!!! | 19:11, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India (My Talk)
That makes no sense. Accepting the notion that God exists does not lead logically to the idea that ghosts exist. If the poster has let us know where they live, we could have recommended authorities on local spiritualism traditions, as well as pointing out that modern western science is highly sceptical of the existance of ghosts and spirits.
Trying for a synthesis: according to current science, ghosts do not exist and all manifestations of 'ghosts' can be explained by the senses being fooled (trick of the light, objects under unusual conditions...), hallucination, an overactive imagination, or self-delusion. We have a pretty good article on which might be of interest to you. However, like many other paranormal phenomena (such as or ) there are always people who believe in them and many claim to have seen or experienced them. So far, the evidence for their existence is exceedingly weak - for instance, no-one has come forward to claim the for demonstrating a paranormal phenomenon, which ghosts would qualify for. It's up to you to decide how credible these eyewitness accounts are, given that they almost never provide good evidence to back up their claims. ghosts UFOs telepathy Randi prize
Short and sweet answer: no, in all likelihood they do not exist. | 17:31, 6 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit Substitute for deodorant or antiperspirant
Please could someone indicate a substitute for deodorant or antiperspirant, products which contain aliminium (linked to Alzheimer's) and triclosane (linked to cancer)? Thank you!
--anon.
Try . | 19:39, 4 March 2006 (UTC) talcum powder User:Zoe (talk)
This is what I use. It's absolutely awesome. I found it at a natural foods store I used to work at. The customers were all raving about it. Now I am. My dad found out how cool it is and sent me to buy up their entire shelf stock to send as gifts to friends. Read their info. It's such a good idea, and a good product, and I'm not even being paid to advertise for them. - 21:44, 4 March 2006 (UTC) [4] [5] LambaJan
Your father sends deoderant to his friends as gifts? I hope they don't take it as a hint... :-) | 21:53, 4 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
In the drugstore you can find 'non-toxic' deodorants. I use one myself, since I don't really sweat. However, if you sweat like a pig, none of these help. On a side note, if you use an anti-persirant, a hair-analysis can detect a big spike in aluminum. -- 15:18, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Try lemon juice, i have used it! but test it first in case of allergic reactions........LG
[] edit 80s hard rock/metal band
i need help w/ a band name. the only thing that i can remember about the band is the bass player was female and a music video they did. the whole music video was done on a flatbed trailer driving down a dirt road. any and all help appreciated!!
It sounds like a video that did but their article doesn't mention a female bass player. | 21:48, 4 March 2006 (UTC) The Georgia Satellites Dismas (talk)
the only ones that come to mind are () & (). Though there were others that played bass for the Bangles. Hardly hard rock/metal though. Or you could try and read through and see if any names look familiar. 10:39, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Kathy Valentine The Go-Go's Annette Zilinskas The Bangles Girlschool List of heavy metal bands CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Indonesian Rhinoceros
I would like to know do rhinos exist in Indonesia and, if they do, where do they live? 23:54, 4 March 2006 (UTC) 202.87.160.8
Both the and the live in Indonesia. The articles have a little more detail. 02:20, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Javan Rhinoceros Sumatran Rhinoceros Rmhermen
Wait a little longer and that would have to be put in past tense. :( 10:19, 5 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit March 5
[] edit English, TV terrestrail television
Does anyone know where i can find a list of what can legally be shown on English terrestrial television, eg. nudity, sex, violence, death whatever can be and cannot be broadcasted. Fo r example i know that erect penises cannot be shown however i am sure i have seen on TV during the early hours recently the portrayal of this. thanks 01:09, 5 March 2006 (UTC) 86.129.82.87
Heres a to the revised Broadcasting Code. 02:14, 5 March 2006 (UTC) link Jameswilson
What about erect nipples? Or an erect clitoris? An erect arm? 10:23, 5 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
It seems the no longer applies. -- 10:44, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Mull of Kintyre test Shantavira
LOL. Just the other day I was looking at a map of Scotland and thought "Ah, so that's where Kintyre is", but I didn't notice this. Apparently my mind isn't dirty enough (that's new :) ). Interrestingly, McCartney's single '' is backed with a song called 'Girls school'. Is McCartneys mind dirtier than mine? I must be going soft (no pun). 19:39, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Mull of Kintyre (song) DirkvdM
I lived there for five years and never even thought about it. Anyway being anal about it. That's not the it's the peninsula. I wonder who had the job of checking out the penis erection size? Might make a good article. 05:23, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Mull of Kintyre Kintyre CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit How is it? Random
How random is the random article link? I've been running through it looking for articles to work on. Before I found an article that I had just edited about an hour before. I've been doing this for several days and at least once a day but sometimes more than that I get . I think Wikipedia may be trying to suitly emphazi something but what? 10:56, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Help:Contents CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
It's not truly random. For performance reasons, it uses a trick which does not result in a correct : each article receives a random number. When you ask for a random article, another random number is generated and used to chose the article. This means some articles tend to be selected more often, while others are never or almost never selected. -- 17:38, 5 March 2006 (UTC) uniform distribution cesarb
That doesn't make sense in two different ways. First, "it's not truly random" is an expression that people sometimes use when they mean only that the in use is a (PRNG), as it usually is on a computer. But while some simply PRNGs are pretty poor, there certainly are good PRNGs that "truly random" for all practical purposes. Second, the last sentence ("This means...") simply doesn't follow. If a good PRNG is being properly used and the algorithm is correct, there will be a good random selection of articles. random number generator pseudo-random number generator are
But having said that, I have no idea of how the "random article" function is actually implemented. For that matter, I have no idea how many times the original poster has been using it: if you call for random numbers enough times, it's natural that some sort of patterns will occur. If there are multiple repetitions of the same specific article, though, chosen from about a million of them out there, then that does sound like there's some sort of misbehavior. Just as a guess, it might depend on a database that's sometimes out of date, and if it finds that the article it was going to select no longer exists, maybe it selects (on the grounds that this might be useful to someone) rather than trying again. Help:Contents
--Anonymous, 19:22 UTC, March 5, 2006.
The PRNG used is a good PRNG. However, the way it's used causes the result to not be truly random (i.e. not be uniformly distributed). The last sentence ("This means...") follows from the explanation (which is a description of how the "random article" function is implemented).
Let me explain how it is implemented in more detail: each article has a field in the database () which is a random number between 0 and 1. When you ask for a random page, another random number between 0 and 1 is generated and the page with a value above the chosen value and nearest it is selected. This causes a bias due to the distribution of the field on the database; if there's a relatively large gap on the numbers, the page with the value just above the gap has a greater chance to get selected. If two pages have close numbers, the one with the greater number has a smaller chance to get selected. Thus, each page has a probability of being chosen which is equal to the difference between its value and the next lowest value.page_randompage_randompage_randompage_randompage_random
If the values were equally spaced, this would be the same as a uniform distribution; however, to maintain them equally spaced would require the whole table to be updated every time a page is created or removed. Instead, the number is randomly chosen (with a uniform distribution). Some pages end up having a greater chance of being returned than others. -- 19:54, 5 March 2006 (UTC)page_random cesarb
Thanks. I've used random page quite often but it's only within the the last four days that I have sat for about 8 or 9 hours while at work hitting random page. The interesting thing is that other than all others have been articles. There must be some bias in it to stop from ending up at AfD's, the front page, here, Admin noticeboard and places like that. 21:01, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Help:Contents CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Figured it out. I click on random article and then scan it for edits. Very short articles usually don't need any. So if I hit a bunch of stubs in a row I'm clicking fairly quickly without moving the mouse. But the mouse is moving and it's drifting down and clicking on the help link. 05:49, 6 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
My understanding was that the random article link only picked articles, which would exclude pages not in the main namespace. Thus, I'm surprised you've got Help:Contents. I know that to deliberately get pages in other namespaces, one can go to . For example, gives you a random page in the Wikipedia namespace and gives you a help page. - 05:48, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Special:Random/namespace Special:Random/Wikipedia Special:Random/Help Superm401 Talk
I just tried out . I got a VFD page, an AFD page, and a peer review. Neat feature. Never knew you could get random pages from anything other than the mainspace. -- 20:33, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Special:Random/Wikipedia Optichan
Coool! Just yesterday I was wondering if there was a way to get a random user page, but I assumed the answer was "no". But sure enough, works (though, not surprisingly, it can return user subpages as well). () 02:43, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Special:Random/User Steve Summit talk
Thanks, cesarb, for the clarification in response to my earlier comment. I see what you mean now. It didn't occur to me that a random real number would be used to decide between a fixed set of choices. I imagine instead that the server could maintain an "indexed sequential" type of data structure -- equivalent to a sequential list of all N articles now existing, but with a way to quickly find the Kth entry. A simple sequential list might also do, depending on performance issues; I have no idea how often this function is used. Anyway, the algorithm then would be to simply use the PRNG to select a random integer K from 1 to N (or 0 to N-1), then display article number K -- and if it didn't exist (because it was deleted since the list was updated), just try again. At convenient intervals (perhaps hourly), the list and associated data structure would be updated to add new articles and delete deleted ones, based on logs kept of these events. Seems simple enough to me, and better than the non-uniform method described above, but then I'm not the one who would be implementing it.--Anonymous, 01:16 UTC, March 8, 2006.
Cambridge: I wouldn't worry too much about it; you get extra points on the wikipediholic test if you run into articles you edit whilst using the random article link. ^_^ 19:30, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Cernen Xanthine Katrena
[] edit db cooper on americas most wanted
was db cooper ever featured on Americas most wanted the reason iam asking you this is because john list was also featured on Americas most wanted and it was at one time believed that the two could be one in the same.
It appears that there was an of the similar show on (I seem to recall having seen it). However, focuses almost exclusively on violent crimes where there is reason to believe the suspect is still at large, so they probably have not covered D.B. Cooper. 05:57, 6 March 2006 (UTC) episode Unsolved Mysteries D.B. Cooper America's Most Wanted KWH
Unlikly as was never wanted by the FBI. It was they were looking for in regards to the aircraft hijack. I remembered that bit of trivia from years ago. If you read through the article it does eventually mention it. 13:24, 6 March 2006 (UTC)D. B. CooperDan Cooper D. B. Cooper CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit How to put a link in a name ?
Please, how to put a link in a name ? Oscar Araripe [email removed]
I'm afraid it's impossible to answer your question without more context. In Wikipedia, you can make anything a link by surrounding it with double brackets, like [[this]]. 17:45, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Putting name and Wikipedia together, just , sign anything you put up here with four tildes ((~~~~), save it and there is your name as a link. Click it, write something about yourself and the colour of the link will change from red to blue. If that's not what you mean, your question is indeed too vague. Do you want a name to appear as a link? What do you use for editing whatever you are referring to? 19:46, 5 March 2006 (UTC) register DirkvdM
[] edit Most paid palyer
Who is the most paid foot ball player in the world?
Did you mean American football or soccer?? 18:00, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India
Shouldn't be that hard to find both.   GeeJo (t) (c)
19:17, 5 March 2006 (UTC)
It really wasn't. As of last year, for the former ($14m per year on the field and $7m off) and either ( 5.2m on the field, 1.2m off) or ( 4.4m on the field, 12.6m off) for the latter depending on whether you want to count commercial interests or not.   Peyton Manning [6] Frank Lampard David Beckham [7] GeeJo (t) (c)
19:26, 5 March 2006 (UTC)
The figures don't say whether or not they take into account bonuses, which are common in soccer, and could be for appearances, goals, wins and trophies. If they are included, it's highly likely that Lampard would be cashing in, since he's done pretty well in all of those categories over the last 18 months. 00:55, 6 March 2006 (UTC)
[] edit GEICO commercial
There's a commercial now running in the US in which a gecko compares free quotes to free "pie and chips". Now, I know that "pie and chips" refers to a meat pie with fried potatoes, but few of my friends have ever heard of it. In the US, "pie" means a sweet fruit pie, and "chips" means thin potato chips ("crisps"), which would make a bizarre combination. Why did GEICO decide to show this commercial to people who wouldn't understand it? 17:35, 5 March 2006 (UTC) GEICO Keenan Pepper
So that it would be  ;) 19:38, 5 March 2006 (UTC) talked about  -- Run! 
Hmm, I thought a major advantage of viral advertising was that you didn't have to pay for TV time. But you may have a point. 20:52, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
I haven't seen that particular ad but the last time I saw a GEICO ad the was talking with an English accent. So the combination of pie and chips would make sense from that angle. However, the ads I am referring to are shown in Canada but I don't recall if I saw them on a Canadian or US channel as the dish has both. 21:24, 5 March 2006 (UTC) gecko CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
I was just wondering why they didn't use something familiar to Americans, like "burgers and fries". 22:39, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
I've been trying to figure out how and/or when the GEICO gecko went from an upper class type, speaking what perhaps may have been , to being a . I figure his use of the term "pie and chips" lends authenticity to his background. -- 22:46, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Received Pronunciation Cockney LarryMac
[] edit Manchester of India
Which city was/is called the Manchester of India? A website says , another , and my school textbook says . Which one is correct? ( ) 17:36, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Ludhiana Surat Ahmedabad vedant talk contribs
And the Award for Manchester of India goes to........according to google atleast.... 17:52, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Ludhiana Jayant, 17 Years, India
What would make a place "the Manchester of" anywhere? Do all the natives speak loudly, eat meat out of tins and walk around the house wearing just underpants whilst it rains heavily outside? Or are there lots of "Mad Ferrits" roaming the streets in clothing? 21:39, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Burberry
Slumgum
LOL - BTW other "Manchester ofs" include Barcelona, Lille, Lodz, 2 for Sweden - Norrkoping and Gothenburg, and umpteen for Italy. Brno in the Czech Rep was the M. of Austria. 00:41, 6 March 2006 (UTC) [8] Jameswilson
I don't know about what people do or wear, but it is related to industries, i think. My textbook says Ahmedabad is the M. of India because it is the second largest cotton manufacturing centre in and Manchester is the centre of textiles in the UK. Don't know if it perfectly true, however. And Google is not a verifiable source, Jayant. ( ) 03:41, 6 March 2006 (UTC) textile India vedant talk contribs
I know that google is not a verifiable source.... but i really dont have access to a local library and i dont have the time too...my only sources of information are wikipedia and the google...if you have a problem with that you should have mentioned in the question that you had already searched on google....and there is also no definite answer to this question...you can only choose the one you think is right.... i am only helping you to make this choice..... 04:02, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India
My sources of information are wikipedia and google too :-). I needed the answer for my exam () and as it got over today, without any question related to any manchester, I personally don't need the answer now. But for the sake of my juniors, I would want to know it. About a answer, there should be one. You cannot say the capital of India is both Delhi and Srinigar. ( ) 09:18, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Geography ICSE definitive vedant talk contribs
But the capital of India, or anywhere, is a defined entity. Calling something the "Manchester of X" is a , and I don't want to live in a world where there are "definitive metaphors." -- 14:18, 6 March 2006 (UTC) metaphor LarryMac
I didn't know "Manchester of X" was a metaphor. Anyway, I don't need the answer anymore, so thanks to all those who helped me in this. :-) ( ) 15:59, 6 March 2006 (UTC) vedant talk contribs
[] edit Halloween Crabs and how to care for them.
I recently perchased what the pet store called a halloween crab. They told me he eats hermit crab food and he's just like a hermit crab. After several days of living in my terrarium set-up he hasn't eaten anything. I have 2 dishes of water, one with salt water and one with fresh. It appears that he is drinking the salt water almost dry and not really paying any attention to the fresh. I should have researched his species further, but the pet store owner convinced me that he was just like a hermit crab and did not require a lot of water. I have him in a 10-gallon tank now, but if necessary, I could move him to a 20-gallon with more water. I need to know what kind of food he will eat, raw fish, raw prawns, cooked prawns, cooked fish??? He's not even interested in the hermit crab food. PLEASE HELP!! 20:01, 5 March 2006 (UTC) 24.113.52.104
Consider the fact that is an encyclopedia. Consider also that we actually have an article . -- 21:04, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Halloween crab Zeizmic
You can't blame him for that. I didn't even expect us to have an article about . - | 21:31, 5 March 2006 (UTC)that Mgm (talk)
I didn't either! I looked it up on Google, and we're #5! Very tiny article, but with some links. -- 22:42, 5 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
I suggest you stop trying to feed it cooked prawns. If it's not eating anything you might just have a really stupid (or traumatized) Halloween crab on your hands. 06:14, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
The article on says that they are vegetarian. This is a different species; one is mostly orange and the other just orange on the limbs. You might try vegetable based fish food. 00:56, 12 March 2006 (UTC) halloween hermit crabs Septentrionalis
[] edit House appliances
A friend of mine always has his radio, CD player, TV and DVD player on . When he is not using the appliance he just turn the volume down. He says that every time you turn them on and off you damage them more than keeping them on all the time. As an example he says that the video stores never turn off the TV s off.
So my question is: Is better for a house appliance to turn it on and off every time is going to be used or is better to leave it on all the time? per LG.
It's better in terms of cost in electricity and for the health of the planet to turn them off. Even leaving them on 'standby' uses quite a lot of energy compared to unplugging them. I think cathode tubes (in TVs) can have a lifespan limited by powering them up. Switches can break by repeated use too. I can't think of any more examples. It's impossible to compare cost of appliance replacement/repair with the cost of electricity bills for 24h usage. It's about priorities; do you want to save energy or risk damaging a switch? 00:45, 6 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
Personally I prefer to save the planet, but you are getting out of the original question...If we look in ecological terms, my broke switch TV is almost impossible to recycle so, perhaps will be better for the planet to keep it working the longest possible, so how do i do that? LG 2031h (EST)
Of course every little saving helps, but before you worry about the smaller 'energy guzzlers' you should first get the big ones sorted out. I am still looking for a good overview of the 'energy footprint' of various things, but I suppose the big ones will be heating and transportation. I can't remember the exact data, but it seems that keeping the tires of your car (if you have one) at the right tension makes a big difference. I believe I read that if everyone would do that once a week that would cut our total energy consumption by a few percent. And regular tune-ups would probably also help a great deal. Of household appliances I suppose the fridge and tv (if used regularly) will be among the biggest guzzlers. And the washing machine if used too often (you really don't need to put on a clean shirt every day). I usually leave my record player turning all day, even if I'm away for an hour or two, because I don't want it to wear out too much and it probably doesn't consume a whole lot of power. But, like I said, I'd like to find some good info on this. On both the energy consumption of things per usage and population statistics. Why, for example, is it that people in the US use so much more energy per capita than in Europe? Maybe the flying around? Taking one less plane trip per year (maybe take the train in stead) might save more energy than worrying all the time about turning equipment off. This doesn't answer your question, but it point out that you're asking the wrong one, and that's also worth something, I'd say. :) 06:44, 6 March 2006 (UTC)does DirkvdM
A side point: The end suggestion assumes that the US has a viable train network; for most of the country, it doesn't. Even less of the country (if any) is served by a modern high-speed rail service. A lot of the travel-related higher per-capita expenditures are a consequence of having a larger country to deal with. Aside from that, I think you're entirely correct about where to focus attention. 18:53, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Lomn
Talk
I think if somebody is leaving everything on all the time, he is either one of my sons, or living in an apartment without a meter. -- 17:45, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Leaving aside the ecological view point that is highly appreciated and valued, can someone answer the original question: Is better for a house appliance (i.e. tv, dvd player, stereo) to turn it on and off every time is going to be used or is better to leave it on all the time? Lg
I would be surprised if modern electronics suffer much from turning on - turning off. It used to be the case with older computers that the electric 'spike' caused by turning the power on and off would slowly damage components, but modern power supplies provide much smoother power, and so there is nothing to worry about. Also, if the appliance in question goes to "standby" instead of "off", the risk is even less, as you won't get any kind of electric 'spike'. Of course, standby burns a fair bit of power and is generally evil, but we've covered that already. The only 'damage' I can see would be physical damage to the on-off switch through repeated use, but other buttons (such as the Play button) get much more use, and I have almost never see a switch or button fail on an electronic device before the device itself failed.
Summary answer: turn 'em off. Save the planet. :) | 08:56, 8 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
We've not as much progress as you seem to think. Capacitors, for instance, are physically stressed when they are charged up which reduces their life as leaky caps don't have proper cap values and will cause circuit failure in nost cases. And the on rush current in caps, and transistors on ICs, and motors (as in your hard disks) can be so substantial that there are options in the SCSI interface to stagger spin up for disk drives. That stresses the power supply, of course. So, it's not possible to be quite so blithe about modern electronics and their virtuous immunity to old time failre modes.
It's a balancing act as failure of much electronic equipment leads very quickly to a trip to the trash (with all the heavy metals in the electronics as a potential contaminant) versus leaving the equipment on and so not stressing it this way, but using electricity pointlessly.
All in all, a quandry. I resolve it by turning everything off when I'm not going to be using it for several hours. I'll leave whatever it is on if I'll be back in 20 minutes or so. 10:46, 8 March 2006 (UTC) ww
[] edit Japanese Games?
Where can I buy old Japanese playstation one games and have them imported to the United States?
? | 17:11, 6 March 2006 (UTC) eBay QuantumEleven (talk)
Come to Japan and you can pick them up cheap (like 100 yen each) at a flea market. 06:09, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
[] edit a few questions on images (civil engineering related)
I've recently taken some photos of a building in its dying days, and have lots of questions. :-(
In , why does the demolition worker have to spray water at the partly-demolished building? this photo
In , why does the blue scaffolding have to be put up, when it will have to be removed before the covered section is actually demolished? this photo
In as well as , I have tried to keep the building "balanced" in the picture by ensuring the left part of the building is perfectly "upright" in the camera viewfinder. However, the right side of the building still looks slanted. Is this a defect of my camera, my shooting position, or something else? this photo this one
Not directly related to the photos: What is the name(s) of the 2 machines in the above-linked photos? Are they cranes, or excavators, or...? (I'm not sure.)
Thamks in advance for any helpful replies. :-) | 04:28, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Kimchi.sg Talk
1. They always spray water on buildings being demolished, simply to control the dust. Old buildings end up containing staggering quantities of the stuff (plus of course the dust that's generated from pulverizing concrete and plaster during demolition), and this would be a significant nuisance, if not a serious hazard, for nearby occupants.
When the in Seattle was explosively demolished, you couldn't really see the collapse because it was instantly enveloped in a huge cloud of dust, and an army of immediately descended, because there were drifts of dust inches thick for blocks around. Kingdome street sweepers
2. Not sure about the blue stuff. Looks like to me, often hung on buildings or scaffolding during construction (or I guess destruction) to contain falling debris. Not sure why they care here, though. tarps
It may be to protect the workers prior to final demolition. If you look at the bottom right there is someone standing there. Plus some of the backhoes may not have enclosed cabs. Pretty musch waht you said. CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
3. I'm not enough of a photographer to explain your parallax problems, but just by chance tonight I was reading our article on , and it talks about the challenges of architectural photography and the way those cameras (unlike conventional cameras) can overcome them. View cameras
4. I call them "backhoes"; most people call them ""; some people probably still call them "steam shovels", after the old they replaced. They're extremely versatile, as can be seen by the fact that, with their normal buckets replaced by hydraulic jaws, they're the tool of choice for demolishing small or medium-sized buildings. excavators cable-hauled machines
() 05:04, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
3. It's not a defect at all; it's a fundamental aspect of the geometry. The focal point of your camera (the point at which the rays of light cross) is not infinitely far away, so it's not an , but a . Every pair of parallel lines appears to cross in two places (antipodal points of the sphere). 06:13, 6 March 2006 (UTC) orthographic projection perspective projection Keenan Pepper
Thanks again for your replies. :-) | 13:17, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Kimchi.sg Talk
[] edit Waking up
When i wake up in the morning, why is it, when i am laying down, i don't have to go to the bathroom yet, but as soon as i sit up or get up, then i really have to go?
Gravity. ... 05:50, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
I suppose you mean 'go to the toilet' and are not talking about a sudden urge to have a bath. :) I noticed this too, when I'm on my way to the train I need to go, get on the train, wait for the train to leave so I can go to the toilet, forget it, travel for two hours, get oof the train and, as I'm walking again, need to go again. Maybe you've given the answer and being at rest suppresses the need to go because it might disturb your sleep. Doesn't sound too convincing, but I liked the idea of giving a question to your answer. :) 06:58, 6 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit Anyone see this user page?
 (  ) claims that she is Willy on Wheels. Anyone want to check out her user page? Roxanne Harman talk contribs
In retrospect, no. 01:25, 7 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
<extensive out of place account removed> - LambaJan
I would only suggest that the Miscellaneous Reference Desk is nowhere close to the right place to be having a discussion like this. -- 02:21, 7 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
ok. - 02:36, 7 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
[] edit Need Your Help.
Hai all of You...
My name is Santi Joedho. I'm from Indonesia. I live in Jakarta. I need informations about course in Singapore. especially for Autocad 2D and Autocad 3D. I graduated from Civil Engineering. And i really need to take a courses for my job. Please give me informations for that courses. But i planning to take that course just for weekend,because i've got offering a job in Batam. Please contact me as soon as possible in my email at Or you can contact me in my personal email
Thanks, Santi Joedho
[] edit Iron on transfer on metal?
Hi I'm making something and I want to have a proper interface on its front (not written with a vivid or some pieces of paper) and I'm thinking about printing the image onto some transparent iron on transfers and iron it on to the metal front. Had anyone tried this before? Does it work? Or do I have to actually experiment myself? Thanks. -- 07:30, 6 March 2006 (UTC) antilived | T C
I've used these a lot on shirts. They're difficult enough to get right, and to be able to peel them off. I don't have a lot of confidence it will adhere to metal. Also, you would need 'dark transfers' since the standard transfers have a white background plastic. I would look into that peel stuff they decorate buses with. -- 13:01, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Um, I doubt it'd work. Few things adhere well to metal. Usually you've got to treat the surface with some form of primer just to get paint to stick to it. -- 14:47, 6 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
I found it! This [] is the stuff to use. -- 15:33, 6 March 2006 (UTC) [9] Zeizmic
Thanks but I doubt they have it anywhere in New Zealand. Maybe I'll just print it on some OHT and stick in on using some glue or something... Also electrostatic ones probably will not work since the metal will be grounded. -- 07:01, 7 March 2006 (UTC) antilived | T C
[] edit Venue of Miss UNiverse 2006
Miss Universe 2006 in Greece?Anyone pls state any fact about these?
fact? You're really asking for it, aren't you? 09:10, 7 March 2006 (UTC)Any DirkvdM
The winner was female. -| 09:19, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
She won in 2006. 16:26, 7 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Despite appearances to the contrary, Miss UNiverse has no connection with the . 21:01, 7 March 2006 (UTC) United Nations DJ Clayworth
Greece is actually quite woody. 06:07, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
[] edit "Taboo"
According to (), "The OK sign" (touching your thumb and index finger to suggest a circle, with the other fingers on the hand fanned out), indicates that everything is okay in the US. I agree with this.The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook: Travel ISBN 0-8118-3131-0
In Brazil, Germany and Russia, however, it indicates a very private orifice and is an insult.
In Japan, the sign indicates you want a smaller denomonation in money.
In France, it's an insult. t denotes the number zero or the concept of something being worthless. When placed over the nose, it means "drunk."
What I want to know is, how true are the three statements above, as they seem quite extreme in my case? Thanks. 16:49, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
The first is definitely true, as featured on an HSBC Advert in the UK (understanding the importance of local knowledge) 21:34, 6 March 2006 (UTC) -Benbread
Not just in those countries either - it's a vulgar gesture in much of southern Europe (especially the Balkans and Greece, IIRC). ... 01:10, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
I just had another thought... As the OK sign has completely different meanings in different cultures, can anyone point out the origin of this sign? Thank You.... 09:14, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India
I saw an item on a German pop science show last Saturday and the first item is definitely true with the US and Germany. They didn't mention any other countries, though. - | 09:20, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
You're not asking about this, but it seems useful info here. An international signalling standard (for search planes overhead) is to raise both hands for a 'yes', in this case meaning "yes, I need assistance". Raising one hand means 'no' ("I don't need assistance", in other words "I'm ok"). This coincides nicely with how people would normally react; waving frantically with both hands when they're in trouble and casually waving with one hand when everything's fine. And another way to remember this is that standing still and straight (the way you're supposed to signal) with both hands raised your body forms a 'y' for 'yes. 09:24, 7 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
File:Hand with thumbs up.jpg
Yeah it is kinda true here in Brazil, though I don't see it very often where I live. A lot of people also understand that as OK too. Anyway, the sign we use instead is the raised thumb. 16:50, 7 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
In Japan, the money sign is the reverse of the OK sign, so your palm is facing up and your three loose fingers point to the side (or close to the side). Most young people would understand the regular OK sign as OK, although it's more common to make a giant O with your arms (just imagine if the song was called YMCO). If you made the regular OK sign to an old person they'd probably try to correct you, or pretend to understand but instead just ignore you. 06:05, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
[] edit Greek television channels
I live in England and have a satellite dish, through which I receive numerous TV channels. In order to learn Modern Greek I would like to be able to receive Greek television channels. I am the least technologically minded person in the world and I don't know where to start. Does anyone have any idea what hardware/software I need to obtain, and how to go about obtaining it? 16:39, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Maid Marion
You need to get in touch with your satellite TV company - they provide you with certain 'packs' of channels, and you pay more depending on which ones you choose. Contact them to see what offers they have, which ones include Greek TV, and how much they cost. | 17:02, 6 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
There are no Greek television channels aimed at the UK in particular, so there are none available via your existing Sky Digital system. If you're willing to give up your Sky reception, your local CAI-approved satellite installer (look in the Yellow Pages) can point your dish at the Hotbird satellite for you, to get you ERT Sat, Hellas HDTV, Holidays in Greece Channel, Extra 3 and Kanali Voulis (Parliament Channel). The Hotbird satellite is too far away from the Sky satellite for you to get both with the same dish; that's why you'll have to choose.
In the UK, you need planning permission for more than one satellite dish; but if you're existing dish is somewhere discreet (a back wall where no neighbours can see it) you could probably get away with having a second dish. You'd need a second digibox, but you could expect to get one on eBay or secondhand quite easily.
If you give up Sky, expect to pay 50 for having your dish moved. If you want two dishes, expect to pay 100 for installation and 60 to 100 for the secondhand digibox.
If you have broadband internet, you could always watch online. claims to have links to live Greek satellite feeds. You can also listen to London Greek Radio from . Hope this helps! 21:00, 6 March 2006 (UTC) This site their website R E DVERS
Thanks guys, all extremely informative - as usual, a triumph for WP! 09:48, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Maid Marion
[] edit How the Brain Works
What makes someone who is say naturally better (i.e understands science and math easily without explaining) as far as the brain is concerned? For example do they tend to have more activity concerning brain cell signals or have more a certain amino acid that encourages more activity in the signalling in a certion region of their brain or brain cells? And is it different then regular memory abilities?
Training memory and concentration is enough and may be done almost naturally. Our natural potentialities tend to function better all the time when not perturbated by indigent education, moral lies, lack of exercise, apeptic lunches ... -- 23:15, 6 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
But what part does cell signaling, is it stronger in certain areas of the brain where we learn or understand science or the parts of our brain that understands literature?
As far as we know, those functions could be all mixed together. These are simply very difficult questions to which no one knows the answers yet. 03:18, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
See and . - | 09:15, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Brain HowStuffWorks: How the Brain Works Mgm (talk)
In your original question you seem to mix up quality and quantity. Being smarter than average people may just as well involve having of something. Having an overactive brain can have negative effects. Also, what constitutes 'intelligent' varies from culture to culture. About two centuries ago in Europe the word 'intelligence' referred to eloquence - writing poetry and stuff. These days it is associated with technical understanding (nerds), which is almost the opposite. So intelligence is at least to some extent having a mix of qualities that fits in nicely with the culture you happen to live in. 09:36, 7 March 2006 (UTC)less DirkvdM
Nerds can produce a lot of poetry. From csh (Unix manual) : -- 12:01, 11 March 2006 (UTC)Although robust enough for general use, adventures into the esoteric periphery of the C shell may reveal unexpected quirks. DLL
what is Safeways mission statement? singed-- 22:56, 6 March 2006 (UTC) 198.237.188.55
I don't know, but bought out in 2004. 23:03, 6 March 2006 (UTC) Morrisons Safeway
[] edit Honey Bees
From the wikipedia article: "They have specially modified hairs on their body that develop a static electricity charge which attract pollen grains to their bodies" Does anyone know how to explain this from an evolutionary standpoint? This almost sounds like (the impossible situation) of a flower using the bee for evolution; pollination is great for the flower, but what does it do for the bee? Beside the obvious "it makes more flowers"--aren't bees oblivious to the role they play in pollination?
(   ) .The preceding comment was added by unsigned 206.8.175.238 talk contribs
It's not at all impossible -- the flowers pretty much "use bees for evolution", but it works both ways, and in fact this sort of symbiosis happens all the time. The bees and the flowers evolved together, negotiating a very nice little . Speaking in the terribly risky, anthropomorphic terms which evolutionary biologists love to use, it went something like this:didquid pro quo
Bees: We're tiny flying insects and we need a high-density energy source to eat.
Flowers: We can photosynthesize sugars all day long, but we can't move, so we need someone to do the cross-pollination thing for us.
Bees: We fly around all over the place anyway. Howzabout you start secreting nectar we can drink, and we'll see if we can't figure out a way to carry pollen around for youse guys while we're at it. Deal?
Flowers: Deal.
Now, as an exercise, take a look at seedless oranges and tangerines, which not only can't move but don't even have functioning reproductive organs any more, and figure out which creatures they've "used" in a similar way, to assist them in their reproduction. And what do those creatures get out of it, or are they oblivious, too?
() 03:23, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
Okay, that's cute, but I'm still missing what the incentive was for the bees to develop a pollen-carrying mechanism. I mean, once the flowers started producing nectar, couldn't there be bees that "freeloaded" on the system without carrying any pollen?
Excellent question; I was kinda worried about that, too. I learn from our own article that the bees aren't just carrying pollen for the flowers' sake; they're intent on taking much of it back to the hive, for their own use, as a protein source. (That nectar, it's all empty calories.) () 03:31, 7 March 2006 (UTC) pollination Steve Summit talk
It would be nearly impossible to "freeload". In order to get to the nectar, the bees have to get their proverbial hands (or feet) dirty and crawl through the pollen. A lot of it will stick without any concious pollen collecting on the bee's part. - | 09:23, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
Simple. If the bees need the flowers they want more of them so pollinating them is to their advantage. 09:40, 7 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit Steadiness
Why is it impossible to hold a camera or flashlight completely steady for any amount of time?
-- 02:02, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Shadarian
Because your muscles are pulling in different directions, and it's hard to balance them. 03:16, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
In particular, the body doesn't have sufficiently fine control over muscle tension to keep a muscle exerting an exactly constant force. Presumably this ability never evolved because there was no evolutionary advantage to being able to hold an object very still (or, at least, not until recent millennia when long-range weapons requiring accurate aim were developed). For most purposes it's good enough if the force exerted keeps oscillating around the desired level (like when you're driving a car down the road, you don't have to keep it dead center in the lane, it's all right if you make tiny steering corrections from time to time to keep it within a few inches of the center). But for holding a tool extremely steady, this good enough, and so you can't do it. --Anonymous, 06:24 UTC, March 7.isn't
A trick you can use to steady a camera is to place it against a heavy object (large book, rock...) and hold the two of them together. The two together will have a much greater than the camera alone, and so will be steadier. inertia
Alternatively, you can use a tripod :) | 08:47, 8 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
An alternative to a tripod (or a monopod or what should I call that) is a piece of string tied to the camera lens and your foot and held taut - a lot easier to carry around. Or lean against something. 07:06, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
-- 11:56, 11 March 2006 (UTC)
[] edit Ruud Van Nistelrooy
So far Ruud Van Nisterlooy has scored 148 goals in his 210 game appearances for Manchester United. I heard that he scored these all goals, from inside the penality area box only. Is it true.
This was true, until quite recently. On , when van Nistelrooy scored against , his first goal for United from outside the penalty area, in a 3-1 win. 17:00, 7 March 2006 (UTC) November 19 2005 Charlton Athletic [10] Qwghlm
[] edit Most paid Football Player
Hi Who is the most paid football(Soccer) player in the world in terms of salary only. How much he gains for a week?
This was already asked and answered above, wasn't it? Is there some sort of quiz? 08:31, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
If we're talking current players, I would guess to be up there, but Brazilians or Germans soccer players could be paid pretty well too. - | 09:25, 7 March 2006 (UTC) David Beckham Mgm (talk)
See . It's Frank Lampard. 10:20, 7 March 2006 (UTC) here
Slumgum
[] edit Tell me this photo!
A classic shot -- a man, i thought it was James Dean, leaning against a brick wall, cigarette hanging from his lip, hands tucked into tight jeans, with his leg against the wall.
it is from some movie.
someone PLEASE let me know this picture! 11:24, 7 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
That roughly describes an image of that I've seen on posters and such. I think it's from but I'm not certain. | 11:26, 7 March 2006 (UTC) James Dean Rebel Without a Cause Dismas (talk)
anyone have a link to the photo? cos i cant seem to find it anywhere.
=( 11:48, 7 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
Is it ? You want the one that comes up in the top right and shows him full length. 11:54, 7 March 2006 (UTC) this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
another version. This is uncolourized and is the reverse of the movie poster. And the but I don't know what this is from. 12:02, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Here's last CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
No. Not it. =(
I remember the photo was showing the guy from the side. 13:02, 7 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
From his side, eh? So did he have one foot on the ground and the other leg was bent so that the bottom of his foot was flat against the wall? That brings to mind a similar image but I can't think of where I've seen it. | 14:38, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
I think it was a too. 06:01, 8 March 2006 (UTC) silhouette  freshgavin  
Yes thats the one Dismas. But WHERE can I find it??!! 06:40, 8 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
First we gotta figure out who it is. I think I've seen the same image you both are thinking of, and I would have guessed it was James Dean, too, but it doesn't show up anywhere on a google images search for James Dean, nor for Marlon Brando, which was my next guess. Anybody else got any other ideas? () 06:32, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
As a matter of fact.. I now think it was Marlon Brando. I'm quite sure actually. But still... no search shows anything.
Actually, maybe it was James Dean?...
LOL i really dunno. 05:28, 10 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
[] edit branch book
Please can you help me to find what is a branch book (marketing word) thanks in advance.
Ummm ... I've read, and written, quite a lot on marketing, yet I can't recall having seen this term. Can you give us more context? For example, can you quote a sentence or paragraph in which you have seen the term used? 15:22, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Maid Marion
[] edit  ? http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/image/vbig/57.jpg
what is it? -- 15:30, 7 March 2006 (UTC) 130.111.98.244
The doesn't seem to know... they just say "Amphipod/freshwater scud/side swimmer". 15:53, 7 March 2006 (UTC) US EPA Lupo
What does this mean  ? -- 15:53, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Lupo Owlsrus
Well, what does mean? (Hint: see .) If you meant "what does '/freshwater scud/side swimmer' mean", follow the blue links or ask the EPA; I don't know. 16:09, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Owlsrus Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages Amphipod Lupo
[] edit Luminous carbuncle
What is a ? What is its significance? 16:15, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Luminous carbuncle For great justice.
What is the context? As you can see in the article, there are several, quite varied, uses for this word. Personally, I'd hope a carbuncle has more to do with the gem than with the abcess. -- 16:21, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Carbuncle luminous LarryMac
[] edit
In the Arial character set I saw that "object" symbol. Do you know what it means or is used for? When I tried to paste it in the Google searchbox, it turned into a space character. -- 16:29, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Valkov
The character is U+FFFC OBJECT REPLACEMENT CHARACTER. GNOME Character Map says it's "used as placeholder in text for an otherwise unspecified object". 17:56, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Are there any examples of it being used as an unspecified object? Does that mean objects that otherwise wouldn't be visible? -- 18:38, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
"Object" here is used in the sense of something non-textual that might occur in a stream of text, like an inline image. --Anonymous, 11:05 UTC, March 8, 2006.
[] edit What happens to , now that both parents passed away? Will Reeve
Will Reeve, only 13, isn't old enough to live on his own. His mother, just passed away recently. Now with both parents gone, what happens to Will? Who will raise him now? How will life be better and worse for him (other than for obvious reasons)? -- 16:48, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Dana Reeve Shultz III
The same thing that would happen to any other child orphaned at a young age - he would be left to the care of whomever his mother nominated in her will, or to another close kin, or to the state. 19:37, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Natgoo
Hopefully not to the state!!! He was living REALLY well so I sincerely hope Will's life doesn't become much poorer now. Other than private schools, what do rich kids usually enjoy that a more common kid might not? To have a whole lot more than his mom and dad taken from him will hurt him much more than he's already been. -- 20:43, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Shultz III
He should be put into a pod and sent to a planet whose inhabitants are much weaker than him. He could fight crimes, save lives, wear his underpants on the outside and wear a cape. 21:57, 7 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
You know, Mr. Shultz III, a child of 13 values many things much more than money, e.g. love and attention, sociality, and mental and physical challenge. Even if he wasn't to live as rich a life as he did before his parents died, it doesn't neccessarily mean his quality of life would suffer. 05:59, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
True, but I've heard a lot of people talk about bad experiences in an orphanage. And while he might value other things than money, moving into an orphanage, would mean a great transition which could add to the stress of his parents' death. Besides, the people in an orphanage do the best they can, but they obviously can't give everyone the personal care and attention they need. So in that sense, going to live with family or a foster family is better. At least IMHO. - | 09:51, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
While it's good to have concern for others I think are the people we should be concerned for, rather than a young man who, although having lost both parents, will still be living a comfortable life. 11:02, 8 March 2006 (UTC) here CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Whats any different to some other kid losing both parents at a young age? In some ways he should be better of, at least he has money when so many others are left with nothing. Im_in_ur_house
[] edit EXTERNAL LINKS
I am new to Wikipedia.
I note that there are EXTERNAL LINKS in various articles; for example in the Paris Travel section 'Nightlife' there are external links to the web sites of various bars and other commercial entertainment establishments.
I provide rental apartment accommodation for visitors to Paris and other European cities and I would like to place an external link to my web site in an appropriate place in the articles. I would like to know how to do this.
I would be very happy to provide related articles and co-related links to Wikipedia from my own website. Please advise. Thank you.
Bill Cameron Ward
Retrieved from "" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Help_desk
It would depend on the notablility of the site and the link's presence would add something to what the article already has. You might want to ask other editors' opinions on the talk page for the article. -- 18:56, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
Also note that also exists and is more liberal about what links to commercial tourism sites it links to. -- 01:34, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Wikitravel Robert Merkel
Am I correct in my understanding that provided that there is an intellectually valuable contribution to the content, it is up to the contributor to insert links if they wish in Wikitravel pieces? I was intrigued to note that following my original enquiry yesterday which used for example the presence of external links to the web sites of some bars and other commercial establishments, that the entire section 'Nightlife' seems to have been removed. Could this be a prudish reaction to the subject matter?
Bill Cameron Ward
[] edit Disasters
Has there ever been a documented case of an earthquake happening at the same time as a Hurricane/Typhoon/Cyclone?
Not that I know of, and I've been doing earthquakes for a while. Landslides are associated with major rain events, and also with earthquakes. -- 21:34, 7 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
ISTR suffered both within a couple of weeks three or four years back. Law of averages would indicate that they're bound to coincide somewhere sometime - especially since a lot of countries are prone to both (particularly in the eastern Pacific basin - Japan through to about PNG). ... 01:15, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Haiti Grutness
wha?
I can see it now. Year 2010, Hurricane Brokeback is bearing down on Slightly-Used Orleans, loading the gov't low-bid, insider levees. Suddenly the downstream companion fault of New Madrid lets go with a Magnitude 8. Nobody knows what happens, since everybody is having cocktails, and taking videos of being warned about this. :) -- 02:07, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
[] edit Name of Chinese song
What is the name of the Chinese song featured in this ? I'm particularly interested in searching for it on the English Google. Thanks! -- () 19:46, 7 March 2006 (UTC) flash file Uthbrian talk
It's a very famous song, I'm quite sure this is just a remix because the version(s) I usually hear is instrumental and very traditional, and I assume quite old. Your best bet may be to look through some soundtracks of big Chinese movies (especially those that did well outside China) or possibly credits for commercials of Chinese travel agencies. 05:54, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
I don't know what the name of the Chinese song is, but I know this link provides all the information you'll probably need. - from what I can tell (which might be completely wrong), the song is sung by , .the title of the song is , and it's associated with a Taiwan show that was broadcast..probably called . -- 22:20, 10 March 2006 (UTC) [11] HappyCamper
[] edit Language
What language has more opportunities:Italian or Indonesian,It is because i want to learn Italian or Indonesian,just one,please help me,thank you
Opportunities for what? Employment? It depends on which country you are in or wish to live in, and what field you wish to work in: Translation? Writing? Teaching? Indonesian is probably spoken by more people, but Italian is probably a bit easier to learn and more useful if you live in the European Union or a mainly European country like the US or Australia. -- 00:31, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Canley
If you're Australian, Indonesian is kind of economically useful seeing that they're just across the pond, and, unlike Italian, there aren't that many people who have learned it at home here. -- 02:09, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
There is at least one benefit in being able to speak Indonesian that doesn't apply to Italian. Though there are many Indonesians fluent in English, fluent in Indonesian (and most asian language) are quite rare and that can lead to opportunities (i.e. in TV or radio). 05:46, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Westerners  freshgavin  
If indeed many Indonesians are fluent in English, that will only be because there are so many Indonesians. Which is one reason to choose Indonesian. At a quarter billion inhabitants it's the world's 4th most populous country. 4% of the world's population are native speakers. And to that you should add Malaysians, because Indonesian and Malay are almost the same. Also, most Italian speakers will speak English reasonably well, whereas few Indonesian speakers do. 09:25, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit March 8
[] edit Child Abuse Awareness Month
Hello, I am writing an article for my high school newspaper about Child abuse awareness month and I cannot find information about it anywhere. If someone could help me find some stuff about it that would be great. 02:00, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Zach
Go to and type in "child abuse awareness month" and you get . You may also be interested in Wikipedia's articles on . Good luck with your article.-- 02:06, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Google a pile of stuff child abuse Robert Merkel
[] edit Hitler's 'Stache
Is there some sort of term to classify it? Preferrably not something along the lines of "a hitler". There's a Japanese comedian that sports one and I'd prefer not to have to describe him as "hitler-esque" in his article. 06:15, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
"Hitler mustache" is certainly the term most familiar to me for it, but there is also "toothbrush mustache". --Anonymous, 06:26 UTC, March 8, 2006.
The comedian may be more flattered if you describe it as . ... 06:53, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Chaplinesque Grutness
Yes, I'm sure he would. And now that I think of it, that's probably what he's going for! Thanks! 07:19, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  freshgavin  
Yes, it is a "toothbrush" . See . -- 09:40, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Moustache#Moustache_styles Shantavira
[] edit Linen cords for Tzitzit
Can anyone please tell me where can one purchase LINEN cords for Tzitzit under reliable Orthodox Rabbinical supervision? Thank you.
Why don't you find the reliable orthodox rabbi first, and then you can ask him? Or am I missing something? -- 09:45, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Shantavira
Rabbis answer questions on Jewish law. They are not in the trade for selling linen cords for tzitzit.
[] edit American
Americans (People of the United States)are referred to this,but all people of the Americas are Americans.I have read this somewhere at one time people of the United States have an actual name that they are called. I have been searching for about 8 years for this answer. Can you help me?
Thanks Randy Zuk
I've seen this discussed around here before. I ask anyone who feels adventurous and can remember key words from that conversation, to look up the old discussion. - | 09:54, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
[] edit Fantasy Films
In the early 20th Century, when were fantasy films popular and why were they?
Have a look at and . 10:57, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Early Development of Cinema Georges M li s David Sneek
...and . -- 12:58, 8 March 2006 (UTC) escapism Shantavira
[] edit Effects of a nuclear war in the northern hemisphere, on the southern hemisphere
This isn't homework, I'm just curious. If a nuclear war wiped out all life, land and nations north of the equator, what would be the political and social effects to the inhabitants and nations south of the equator? I know we can only speculate but I think it's interesting. I'm especially curious as to which country would become the new superpower, Australia or Brazil.
I think to speculate you need to find some other catastrophe than a nuclear war to develop this speculation. In this scenario, with that much radiation flying around, the southern hemisphere would have a few months to live. This would tend to focus their attention on digging holes, building shelters, or escaping to space, leaving little time for worrying about who would be a superpower... 12:11, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
See for ideas. 12:12, 8 March 2006 (UTC) On the Beach Nevil Shutes CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Assuming that some weird other cause would totally wipe out humanity in the Northern Hemispere and leave the Southern hemisphere totally intact, with the equator being a sharp 'cut-off line' (or what should I call that?). Then Indonesia (or rather Java) would have something like 1/3 of the remaining population. Since much of the wealth countries have depends on international trade and most of that will be lost with the major economies lost, these southern economies would collapse and they would all have to start from scratch (well, not entirely of course, but there will be a strong effect along those lines). And then the population numbers will become a decisive factor. So my bet would be on Indonesia. Or would indigenous natural resources be decisive? In that case Congo would be a strong contender (no, not South Africa - who needs gold and diamonds in a survival situation?). Of course we can come up with all sorts of variations on this. What if all 'rich' countries would cease to exist? Or all land below 1 km would be flooded? 09:46, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
In a survival situation any country which can't feed its own population is pretty much fucked. In that scenario Brazil seems quite strong. The question remains unanswerable though - too many variables. 03:53, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Celcius
[] edit Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion
I wonder, will Oblivion run on a ATI Radeon 9200 SE?
That range of cards is not listed as supported by the game, so perhaps not. -- 01:59, 9 March 2006 (UTC) [12] Canley
i need to know how people have effected Ireland and what the culture is
Try reading our article on . 15:01, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Ireland
And start your homework earlier.
Very few people have effected Ireland, but some have affected Ireland. 19:34, 8 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
I always find it annoying to use affect/effect. 20:12, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
Well, then don't. 09:48, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Affect = verb; effect = noun. It could be worse. I've seen people mix up "it's"/"its" or even worse "there"/"their"/"they're". - | 10:27, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
I'll effect the change to my vocabulary immediately.  "Affect = verb; effect = noun." GeeJo (t) (c)
14:05, 9 March 2006 (UTC)
Right, affect can only be a verb but effect can be both a verb and a noun. As a verb, 'effect' is active ("I will effect this"), whereas 'affect' is passive ("that will affect that"). I think. (I might as well, considering I am :) .) 10:51, 10 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
22:43, 11 March 2006 (UTC)
Affect can also be a noun- meaning "feeling".
Mark your words
It's not a question of active or passive. Both your examples are active, Dirk. The passive counterparts would be "This was effected by me" and "That will be affected by that". And Mark's right about affect also being a noun. 21:43, 12 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
In that case my dictionary needs an update. And I used the terms 'active' and 'passive' because I couldn't think of better words for the distinction - I wasn't happy with them either. 08:53, 13 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
The most common one up here is "residents" and "residence". 11:12, 10 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit International Boundary
Please tell me the name of International Boundary between India and Bangladesh
Try looking at a map or our article on and and work it out yourself. 20:13, 8 March 2006 (UTC) India Bangladesh Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
[] edit Football
What 4 English players that have cost over 7 million pounds and have not played for England 15:33, 8 March 2006 (UTC) 81.138.19.96
1. Do
4. Homework
17:26, 8 March 2006 (UTC) -Benbread
This doesn't smell like homework. Please, answer your own pub quiz questions. -- 18:52, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Sam Pointon United FC
I can only think of ( 8.1m), who (I'm pretty sure) is also the world-record for a never-capped player. But if you change 'over 7m' to ' 7m or over' you can also get , and , who were all sold for 7m. User, if you use a site like soccerbase.com, you can find the answers for yourself. 19:00, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Dean Richards Dean Ashton Carl Cort Seth Johnson
amazingly cost 7.5m when Blackburn bought him in 1998. 02:39, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Kevin Davies Jameswilson
[] edit Age of piano
I am trying to find an encyclopedia that shows the age of a piano by looking up the serial number. There had been a fellow, that had done some repair work on mine, that said at that time it was over 100 years old. That has been over 20 some years ago and he is no longer around. Wouild appreciate any help you might give. Thank you
I would think that contacting the company that made the piano, if they are still in business, would be the easiest method to determine the age of you piano. | 21:39, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
No answer, but a possible indication of the age. How many keys does the piano have? Mine has 85, whereas modern pianos have 88. I don't know when the change was made, though. Also, my piano has 2 sets of 4 holes, where candleholders would have fitted. Too bad they're gone. :( 09:53, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
85 key pianos were made at least as recently as 1900. Even Steinway still made them in the 1890s. 16:10, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
85 key pianos are still made today, for markets where people tend to live in smaller properties where space is an issue, so unfortunately you cannot tell much about the age by this. The general style of the piano and the design of its action (i.e. the mechanical parts inside) is one of the best ways to tell, but you have to know what you re looking at. Chances are the piano technician knew his stuff. However, there is a book called the Pierce Piano Atlas which lists serial numbers and ages for most major manufacturers. It s not exhaustive, but most makes that kept records are in there. Good luck. 13:51, 13 March 2006 (UTC) 86.134.236.210
[] edit What is the full power description?
I wanted to know what the full powers are of the cursed devil fruits in "One Piece" are?
[] edit More Crap from Cernen
Ahoihoi. The rumors of my death are not entirely true, but people are allowed to think them as such anyway. *ahem* Okay. I have a couple of questions for you all.
Nancy Glass had this television show she was working on called "American Journal." It would appear that we have no article on , nor one on , but it had a theme song that I was absolutely in love with. It was a classical piece I heard one time on the radio, and have never heard again. If I could write sheet music, I'd upload some image. I'd really like to know the theme song. American Journal Nancy Glass
I'm interested in studying languages. I don't care which languages, really. But what I would like to know is, what do some of you recommend I do in college to further this goal?
19:43, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Cernen Xanthine Katrena
I don't know about the first question, but I would recommend the languages. Perhaps you would be interested in learning ? It's mostly linked with numerous English words; and it's quite a good language, but there are hundreds of verbs that you would have to remember if you want to speak it quite clearly. You need to know the plural, past, present, future, "you" [saying the word], "he" [saying the word], "she" [saying the word], they [saying the word], us [saying the word], them (masculine) [saying the word], them (femanine) [saying the word]. But besides all of that, it's quite easy. But there are regular and irregular verbs that you also need to know, like (drink); but the past is (drank). Hope that helps! 20:57, 8 March 2006 (UTC) French boirebu Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
I've often been told that one should take Latin and an etymology course of some sorts when you want to study languages. P.S. Good to see you back, I actually had been wondering if you fell off the planet. | 21:30, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
would be a good one to learn. 23:03, 8 March 2006 (UTC) This CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
If I recall correctly, the theme song from American Journal was an excerpt from by . It was the section based on . Here's a clip from Amazon: or . -- () 04:35, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Appalachian Spring Aaron Copland Simple Gifts Windows Media format Real Player format Uthbrian talk
Thank you muchy for responding to my other questions, but I remembered the one I REALLY wanted to ask. Does any one know what opera they play during the commercials for ? 07:48, 13 March 2006 (UTC)Black 12.72.243.6
Black what? 07:58, 13 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
the for . 05:14, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Black video game PS2 67.168.96.173
Try registering for an introductory language course in college. Difficult, strategic languages offer the most economic opportunities, if you're not picky. Get a list of strategic languages from the websites for the U.S. State Dept. (www.state.gov) or the CIA. Arabic, Chinese, and Russian are commonly cited difficult and strategic languages. There's no particular reason to take Latin, unless you're looking to get a Ph.D. in classics, ancient history, Romance Languages, or English. 00:48, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
[] edit 78th Academy Awards
Hi, can anyone tell me if either and/or Johnny Depp attended the Oscars a few days ago; or even better, if you don't mind, get a list of all the celebrities who attended? Thank you very, very much! 20:10, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Jack Black Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
Try - I sure did like Jack Blacks "Oscar Speech too Long" song... 78th Academy Awards
Are you sure? I already checked there and I couldn't find any of theme. 18:01, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
[] edit audio
what does "eng dub" mean? -- 20:58, 8 March 2006 (UTC)zilasuki 64.185.108.199
English dub, probably. Meaning it was originally recorded in another language and then later they dubbed English over the existing audio instead of adding subtitles. | 21:21, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
feel like? -- 21:03, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Owlsrus
Please suitly emphazi your question. 21:58, 8 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Perhaps the person meant "what does an erection feel like?"... Anyone wants to share the feeling? 07:40, 9 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
On the other hand, it's possible he was asking if we feel like having one, and as soon as someone says yes the Reference Desk'll be spammed with porn ads.   GeeJo (t) (c)
08:39, 9 March 2006 (UTC)
On the other hand it feels quite different. Just try it. 09:56, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Different from what? (That reminds me of the old non-sequitur about "I've tried sex a few times, but I prefer the real thing"). 20:10, 9 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
I'm not assuming anything, but if this was a request to have an erection, I'm going to report them for soliciting. Sometimes, not being clear can be an advantage... - | 10:30, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
Perhaps, the first person who posed the question is a woman and wants men to explain the matter from a scientific and experiential standpoint. As a man, I think that after I reached puberty about three times per week on average provided that I don't starve myself like an ascetic I get a true erection. I hypothesize that it starts when my stupid brain shoots sexual hormones into my body.
Finally I ejaculate. This is true of every man. I have concluded that if a man had never had an erection and ejaculated, then he would not grow facial and pubic hair.
I think this is enough.
-- 02:57, 11 March 2006 (UTC) 66.81.192.90
(Ahem). Three times a day would probably be closer to the mark for most adult men up to middle age or later. 00:34, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
yeah for boys going through puberty i'd say more like 27 times a day. 13:59, 14 March 2006 (UTC) I Lov E Plankton
[] edit Value of the Silver certificates
Hello. I read the page you have on silver certificates (I have one and was curious) but it did not mention anything about finding out what they are worth. Can you help me with this? I am in a small town that does not have anywhere to have this done. Thank you.
Laura
I dont know exactly how much they are worth but im am interested in obtaining one, for a good price. plz leave ur email address if ur interested. thanx
No, please don't post an email address, it's just fodder for spammers and will be deleted from here. | 17:19, 9 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit TKKG#Comics
At the end of the paragrah there's a link to which is a disambiguation page for a school and an airport. The link makes no sense in either context. Anyone got any idea what it should be? Thanks. 22:58, 8 March 2006 (UTC) YPS CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Possibly ? - 00:12, 9 March 2006 (UTC) de:YPS 83.129.14.232
That would be it. Thanks. 08:32, 9 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit fish and milk
Growning up in the 1950 I was told that you could have milk and fish at the same time I am from Ohio and a Friend that is in Texas said the same thing wanted to know why
this is another unsuitly emphazi'd question. You can drink whatever you want to while you fish, though having too much alcohol while you're close to a large body of water isn't the safest thing (especially if you're in charge of the boat. On the other hand, you might mean drinking milk while eating fish, which is no problem (but is it kosher? That's another problem - IZAK? Tomer? Anyone?). Perhaps the question refers to eating fish while breast-feeding - that one I wouldn['t have a clue about. ... 07:07, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
Fish is , so it's kosher to eat it with milk. 08:03, 9 March 2006 (UTC)pareve Keenan Pepper
I've never seen a fisherman drink milk, but that doesn't mean it's impossible. 09:58, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Some Jewish religious authorities forbid the eating of fish together with milk, on the grounds that it is a danger to health. (Bet Yosef on Tur, Yoreh Deah chapter 87). Others however say that this ruling arose as a result of a scribal error and it is therefore permitted to eat the two together. (Shach on Shulchan Aruch, Yoreh Deah chapter 87 paragraph 5).
As for breastfeeding, fish recommendations are usually phrased something like "If you are pregnant, planning to be pregnant or have young children", so presumably they would be the same for breastfeeding mothers. Although at least one study seems to say that it isn't a problem - organic mercury from fish not present in breastmilk but inorganic mercury from dental fillings was. 16:03, 9 March 2006 (UTC) [13] Rmhermen
Perhaps you mean plaice cooked in milk which I had for lunch the other day? 00:45, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
[] edit what do you call?
what do you call something that's black, and white, and red, and green, has it's nose to the wind, it's back to the grindstone, and a fondness for chopped liver?-- 23:31, 8 March 2006 (UTC) Promptatorian
pepper. - 03:23, 9 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
[] edit Nehru
Does someone know where i can buy black nehru jackets in Los Angeles area?
Are Nehru jackets back in style again? Cool! If so, I'd be surprised of you couldn't find one on in the , since pretty much every other kind of clothing seems to be for sale there. Good luck! 22:16, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Melrose Avenue Fairfax District MCB
[] edit Duel SIM card
How do use duel SIM card in a same mobile Phone?
Google . You should find enough information there. There is no "default" way to do it, but there are cheap gadgets that will let you. Dual SIM Card
Well, first you have to decide: or ? Decisions, decisions... Marquis of Queensbury Yu-Gi-Oh! Cernen
[] edit Non-partisan website which analyzes arguments about politics
I'm trying to find this website in my favorites or the web but I can't remember much about it, except that it was really good. One basic thing is that it attacks the arguments of both democrats and replublicans (in American politics). One thing I might have read on it might have been about the inheritance tax, or tax cuts in general. Also there might have been an analysis of the Bush/Gore debates. I think it focused on pointing out flaws in arguments and where people get the facts wrong or something.
Yes! I've finally found it. The first site I was at is , which is now closed down but has links to other sites. The one I was thinking about was . By the way, I highly recommend it.-- 05:09, 9 March 2006 (UTC) SpinSanity FactCheck.org Catquas
[] edit Im gona do it
Ive decided to end my life...wat would be the best way to go about this?
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned Im in ur house talk contribs
life is uniformly and infallibly fatal, so all you really have to do is wait. this takes no special effort and it's guaranteed to succeed.
if you're in some sort of hurry then i suggest contacting a psychiatrist; many of them know a great deal about suicide and could suggest something. 06:03, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Charles P._
(Mirv)
And if you're in a bigger hurry consult a or take yourself to the nearest hospital . -- 08:46, 9 March 2006 (UTC) crisis hotline casualty department Robert Merkel
It depends on what sort of suicide you want. Is it a messy suicide? A painless suicide? A novel and exciting suicide? If I was going to commit suicide, I would want to spend my last moments doing something rather exciting that I've never done before - so I'd skydive without a parachute. It might cost alot, but it doesn't matter if I die broke. 12:34, 9 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Alternatively, one could go insane. I've done it and it's lots of fun. Go to a psychiatrist and he pulls one of the special pills from his drawer. It's equivalent to jumping. -- 15:46, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
well i tryied this suicide thing and it gave me quite a thrill but, u know, i still enjoy self-harm better coz then u get to experience the pain and see the scares afterwards.
(   ) .The preceding comment was added by unsigned Im in ur house talk contribs
If you have a political issue you feel strongly about you could draw attention to it by setting yourself on fire, like several hundred Bhuddist monks in the Vietnam War & a quaker whose name I forget. 15:47, 10 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
You can admit to the latest terrible crime you read in the news. Depending on where you live, you might be able to get the state to do it for you this way. (The downside is it involves lying and keeps the perp. on the street)- 03:22, 11 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
The best painless ways: Get into your car, put a hose going from the exhaust in through the vehicle window, get in, turn the car on, and die painlessly of carbon monoxide poisoning. OR: Mix a lot of bleach and ammonia/toilet bowl cleaner and put the mixture into a small room and get in. It will produce a painless type of chlorine gas that will first make you unconscious and then kill you.
You know, those of you who would sign your posts on this question, that you might be held legally responsible if this person should take your advice? I don't know if that's true or not, but I really think that killing yourself isn't a good idea... 05:11, 15 March 2006 (UTC) 67.168.96.173
[] edit Robot Wars TV show in U.S. from year 2000,2001 & reruns after
Can we find info. on director, producer, writers of TV show,and on what channel, program and year it was last seen?--- Thank you so much. Saliha786
imdb has called . You might click on the links to figure out which one you're talking about. | 17:23, 9 March 2006 (UTC) references to several different TV series Robot Wars User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit New Episodes of Doctor Who
This is more of a presonal question than a reference question: Since the beginning of this year, new films and episodes of Doctor Who (the Christmas Invasion and Series 2) have been released to the general public.(See ) So where can I buy or borrow videos,CDs, and DVDs of these new episodes?(I live in Sydney, Australia.) 06:41, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Doctor Who Serials#David Tenant Bowei
The only new stuff we've seen is Christmas Invasion ... which is presumably going to come with Series 2 on DVD. (Series 2's not due to start 'til Easter.) You could try asking on a fan forum like to see if someone could lend you a vid of Chrimbo. -- 09:13, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Outpost Gallifrey Bth
PS That forum requires free registration. In the meantime if you want to see David Tenant in something written by Russell the T you could get yourself the superb []Casanova, which is out in Oz. -- 09:30, 9 March 2006 (UTC)n [14] Bth
Yesterday, CBBC reported that will play a villain in the upcoming series of Doctor Who. All that's been broadcast is the Christmas episode. The rest is yet to come, they're still filming. You can rest assured that the BBC will make a big announcement when the new episodes are released. - | 10:36, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Peter Kay Mgm (talk)
To keep up to date, try checking on a regular basis. - | 10:37, 9 March 2006 (UTC) http://www.bbc.co.uk/doctorwho Mgm (talk)
There's also the question of whether this has anything to do with the Dr. Who vandal who migrated over here from the Homestar Runner Wiki. 00:52, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
[] edit Business
Hello i was just wondering can anyone provide some information, that if a business has a market share of 18% in 2003 and then 16 % in 2004 and 14% in 2005, what might me some financial and marketing strategies that the business might adopt to confront the problem? Thank You
At a guess, trying to get random strangers on the Internet to act as free consultants wouldn't be a winning strategy. Or is this business studies homework? -- 09:24, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
In cases like this it is important to look at the big picture, continue to upskill and to be customer-centric. Pro-actively. 09:32, 9 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
And of course to utilise synergies. -- 09:54, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
And agressively pursue organic growth through acquisitions, and diversify to concentrate on your core competencies. BINGO !-- 12:21, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
You haven't defined whether there is a problem. Market share is only one metric. For instance, if the market doubled in size over that interval, the company seems to be doing very well by most measures. 09:33, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
Then again, just as money makes money, market share creates market share. That's why most products have just a few maufacuturers - the small ones are often ignored by the buyers (which is why commercials are used to make them believe they're bigger than they really are - and it often works). A market share of over 10% is still quite reasonable, provided you distinguish yourself from the competition - effectively creating your own little niche market (in the buyer's mind at least) where you hold a monopoly (think Mac). 10:12, 9 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit Photos
Some one asked this before but i dont know when and I even forgot the answer. My question is how to insert a photo in my article?
Take a look at , but before uploading a photo, make sure that it is not copyrighted (for instance, it's almost always not OK to just upload a photo from another website). | 11:04, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Picture tutorial QuantumEleven (talk)
If you are looking for photos to add, then browse the . would be a good place to start for images of cars. 12:40, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Wikimedia Commons Commons:Category:Automobiles Thryduulf
[] edit Photos
Some one asked this before but i dont know when and I even forgot the answer. My question is how to insert a photo in my article?Since my artcles are on cars(2) and a bike. If you want to read it see my userpage. Suraj vas
wow! d j vu! ... 11:44, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
, . - 08:16, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Image tutorial Wikipedia:Picture tutorial 131.211.210.11
[] edit Matching non-alchoholic beverages
If you go to a very expensive restaurant, they will happily suggest wines to match each dish you get. However, neither my wife nor I drink alcohol. So I wonder if they ever match anything other than wine to the dishes you get. Specifically, would they suggest something non-alcoholic, if that's what you want. And more importantly, would I look like an idiot if I asked them to do so?:) -- 22:44, 9 March 2006 (UTC) Ornil
I think that's a reasonable request, depending on how classy the restaurant is. If it's really classy, they should have all kinds of fancy juices and mineral waters, and the waiter should be able to suggest one to go with your meal. I tried some once and that was some pretty damn good water. 23:14, 9 March 2006 (UTC) San Pellegrino Keenan Pepper
In a snooty restaurant, they will be snooty about it. But in some places it would produce a genuine attempt to give a good idea. Above all, a good restaurant will try to help you and make you feel welcome, rather than like an idiot; it's only good hospitality. Most places don't have much of a range of non-alcoholic beverages, and most of them are sweet, which doesn't really go with most savoury dishes. Avoid any suggestions of alcohol-free wine. Why not experiment at home: try different juices and other beverages with particular kinds of food. Although wine buffs like to endlessly speculate about matches (why not: it's pretentious it's fun), there aren't so many basic flavours. Consider rich meaty dishes; cheesy dishes; light, simple fish; things with creamy sauces; simple vegetable/pasta dishes; oriental; sour things; chocolate; other sweet things. Or consider tea: there are lots of teas, with a wide variety of flavours. And if a snooty restaurant doesn't have your chosen tea, well then you can be snooty right back at them. This sounds like it could be a fun activity for a dinner party too. 23:20, 9 March 2006 (UTC)and Notinasnaid
I have definitely seen a set menu advertised with matched non-alcoholic beverages, though the impression I got was that that particular occasion was a one-off. But it at least suggests that restaurant would have tried to help you if I could only remember where in the world it was.that
What country are you in? Not drinking alcohol is considered completely normal in the United States, but might be thought more unusual in many European countries.
As previous respondents said, your request is reasonable and a restaurant would attempt to accommodate it. Of course, the most expensive restaurants are not always the best. 00:26, 10 March 2006 (UTC)good Blotwell
I am in the US. -- 01:06, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Ornil
My advice is: Ask the waiter. His reaction will be a good measure of the quality of the restaurant. If he can't make any suggestions for you that's a clear indication of bad service. Afterall, he's there to make the dining-experience a pleasant one and non-alcoholic requests can't be that odd. I live in and only a small minority does not drink alcohol - but I would definitely consider it extremely bad form if the waiter acts "snooty". Don't worry about it - if they can't take care of a simple request it's their service which has a problem - not you. 04:14, 10 March 2006 (UTC) North Celcius
If you're in Australia, you can get a nice type of non-alcoholic wine called Maison. It tastes a fair bit like wine, comes in a glass bottle with a champagne-style cork, and has four varities: Red, White, Red Champagne () and White Champagne (). It's $3 a bottle and you can get it in Coles.Maison LambruscaMaison Supreme
If you're experimenting with 'fancy' non-alcoholic drinks, try Elderflower juice. It has quite a unique taste, and is not as sweet as many fruit juices, so would go well with savoury food. I was recently served some as a non-alcoholic alternative at a fancy dinner, and it was delicious! | 12:49, 10 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit March 10
[] edit iTunes Music Store accounts
How can I start an account without a gift certificate, credit card etc? I don't need to buy anything, I'm just trying to download some of the free podcasts like The Onion.
If you have a valid email address you should be able to open an account. Follow the first near the bottom of the WP article. You will be prompted to download which you will need to do to open your account. 03:44, 10 March 2006 (UTC) iTunes Music Store External link iTunes 6 hydnjo talk
You don't need an iTunes account to subscribe to podcasts. iTunes doesn't host the podcasts, the iTMS is simply a directory when it comes to podcasts. Trust me, I don't have an iTunes account, and I subscribed to podcasts from the iTMS. 20:53, 15 March 2006 (UTC) OneofThem
[] edit XUV Sltudebaker
Aloha,
My brother used to own a Studebaker when I was around 10yro. If I remember corect it was in 1950 pr 1955, Always love the car. It was so far ahead of all other on the road. Very few repairs eithsr. Now I see a XUV STUDEBAKER SUV type, want to know a lot more about it. Is it on the market to buy? Does Studebaker have any other van, trucks. minivans? If they are not so so high in price I could be interested.
I think now that some of us have grown up and matured enough to handle what ever it is. Always looking fot the different out of style kind of truck.
Please let me find out morel\\
Mahalo, Tom
As always, is your friend; , with "a lot more" information about the vehicle, and links to other Avanti products. -- 16:11, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Google The Avanti Studebaker XUV LarryMac
[] edit Waving
On the news there was a woman who saw and spoke to ghosts and a ghost told her to take a picture, so she did, and in it was a ghost waving, it was all over the news here in Canberra, but I can't find it anywhere in google, anyone know how I can find it?
Are you sure it's not a case of ? - 08:20, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Kirlian photography 131.211.210.11
No I am definitley not sure, I'm not a believer, I just find it very interesting
[] edit Best Sennheiser headphones for use with an iPod?
I need some good Sennheiser circumaural headphones for use with an iPod. I blew $200 on the HD-515s, and then all the reviews say they're terrible with portables, and supra-aurals drive me nuts. Thanks.
Dammit Jim, I'm an encyclopedia, not an electronics store! | 12:44, 10 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
HD-555s. Or you could get a portable amp for the 515s. Incidentally, if those were US dollars you seriously overpaid. 14:39, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
Not Sennheiser, however, Shure has some really good earphones if you have money to spare, especially for the high end ones! Edit: I see you meant closed headphones, my mistake, I prefer them over the earbuds myself, I just jumped to conclusion. 03:10, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Link Willzyx
[] edit Cartoon follow-up
Some while ago I asked if anyone could ID a cartoon show that I rented when I was very young. No one could figure it out, but I was asked that if I should find the title that I should tell you all about it. The cartoon is "Mr. Rossi's dreams" KeeganB
See offical web site and now you can upgrade the article. 08:54, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Bruno Bozzetto Bruno Bozzetto CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Anubis
Can someone please provide instructions on how to use the .-- 08:34, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Anubis cipher Keycard () talk
yes i could give u instructions if i had them.
You can find Java/C implementations on the cipher .   here GeeJo (t) (c)
09:56, 10 March 2006 (UTC)
No, but how do I actually go about encrypting text with it? I don't know what to dow ith the Java/C implementations.Thanks-- 13:35, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Keycard () talk
The reference implementations only provide encryption & decryption. To actually encrypt & decrypt files (as opposed to 128-bit blocks of data), you will need to wrap the block functions in code implementing one of the . -- | 18:00, 11 March 2006 (UTC) block block cipher modes of operation AJR Talk
[] edit Largest Ship Manufacturer
What is the name of the largest manufacturer of ships and aircraft carriers in the world?
What is the name of the largest manufacturer of ships of in the United States?
-- 13:08, 10 March 2006 (UTC) 66.81.193.89
This looks like homework, so i suggest you find out by yourself. A good article to start with would be 17:38, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Defence contractor -Benbread
I can't think what subject would set a homework question like this. Seems more like idle curiosity to me.   GeeJo (t) (c)
17:47, 10 March 2006 (UTC)
I don't know, but I'm relatively confident that they'll be one and the same, since no nation apart from the US operates , nor is any nation attempting to challenge the US Navy for global . The likeliest exception, to my mind, would be Russian submarine yards, which could still be cranking out boats for international export (I think the class is still the most common in that area), and that per-boat could easily eclipse US submarine construction, which is currently restricted to a few -class boats. Of course, a good bit of this depends on what defines "largest". I've gone under the military assumption, but a civilian yard could well turn out more tonnage for merchant shipping. 18:23, 10 March 2006 (UTC) supercarriers power projection Kilo Virginia Lomn
Talk
Perhaps this . 19:07, 10 March 2006 (UTC) one Rmhermen
Manufacturer of the largest ship and aircraft carrier? Largest manufacturer of ships and aircraft carriers? Manufacturer of largest tonnage of ships? Manufacturer of the greatest number of ships? Manufacturer with the largest stock capitalisation? Suitly emphazi, please. 19:32, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
I mean the company with the highest revenue that produces ships in the same way that produces airplanes. Airbus
For the U.S., I know that Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman are the top aircraft manufacturer. However, while I was in a discussion with my friends about ships, I couldn't come up with a single company that produces ships -- let alone the one with the largest revenue. This is "an idle curiosity question," and I am looking for the manufacturer of ships with the highest revenue in (1) the world and (2) United States.
-- 21:50, 10 March 2006 (UTC) 66.81.193.226
Is the answer for the U.S. company? General Dynamics
The question's still unclear. Most companies which produce ships will also produce other things. Do you want the company which makes the most money from making ships, or the company which makes ships which makes the most money? According to Business Week, is the 'world's largest shipbuilder', but I don't know what their criteria are. 22:29, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Hyundai [15] Mark your words
I want the company which makes ships that generates the most revenue in all areas of production. I am referring to the overall revenue of the company; not a subset thereof.
Then I think it's . It's , and has a shipbuilding subsidiary. 14:47, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Samsung the world's 14th biggest company Mark your words
[] edit Help me find the Chief
This was recently posted on the : Newcomers' help page
I am trying to find a Chief of a Ojibway Tribe around 1979 80 I is a long story and I had the "hots" for his daughter at the time.
I was invited to dinner at their lodge on birch Island I think, and the next thing I know I am learing how to build log cabins. I was around 17 or 18 at the time. I just wanted to thank them for all the things they taught me.
Could you find out what his name was. I went out with his daughter a few times too. This was when I was managing the Island Lodge with BOB. Between Birch Island and White Fish Falls and I knew old Mike too who lived on the island, Steel Boat and some of the other guides.
My name is Leslie They may regognize me at www.lesthehandyman.com I am however 20 years older
| 13:16, 10 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
Well, from the fact that the tribe was located on and around Birch Island, I'd think it'd be the , which we don't have an article on. Their homepage is . All I can tell you about leadership is that the chief is Shining Turtle, or Franklin Paibomsai. As to whether he was chief 20 years ago I couldn't say you'd have to contact either him specifically at "chief  whitefishriver  ca" or the general information address at "info  whitefishriver  ca"   Whitefish River First Nation here currentatdotatdot GeeJo (t) (c)
17:26, 10 March 2006 (UTC)
[] edit Score of the Rams - 49ers game in December 1986
I've searched all over the web and I can't find the final score of the game played Dec. 19, 1986 between the Rams and 49ers. Can anyone tell me how to get this info?
Thanks. Sean
-- 22:25, 10 March 2006 (UTC) 67.101.52.57
You couldn't have looked very hard. Took me 48 seconds. 49ers won 24-14. 22:30, 10 March 2006 (UTC) webpage
[] edit Euro's
In the euro-biljet, in the left down side of the map there are a few little maps placed in. What are these countries, and why are they on that map? I searched a lot for it, but can't find it. (although probably it is on a logical place, where i didn't looked it up). 23:21, 10 March 2006 (UTC) effeiets anders
Do you mean on this map - ? 23:36, 10 March 2006 (UTC) Image:Euro map de.png CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Ah that's on the right not the left but they are shown as being parts of France, Spain and Portugal. 23:39, 10 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
wha?
Ohhhh! Is my face red now. 07:16, 11 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Hmmm, the are part of the , so aren't they part of the EU as well? 08:26, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Netherlands Antilles Kingdom of the Netherlands DirkvdM
They're part of the Kingdom but use the for their currency, not the euro - therefore they don't appear on the euro notes. -- () 03:20, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Netherlands Antillean gulden Arwel talk
No, they are neither part of the EU or the EMU, although they're part of the Kingdom. Only the Netherlands proper (not the rest of the Kingdom) is part of the EU. The French Antilles and overseas possessions are considered part of France and are fully part of the EU. (Interestingly, the French Antilles voted "yes" on the EU constitution while the part of France actually in Europe rejected it) -- 14:51, 16 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
Thank you all! I always thought it was , and lately I doubted somehow, because the shape was not correct :P And that article I couldn't find :s Now i know where it is, let's read it for more little piny tiny interesting details. :) 08:31, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Suriname effeiets anders
don't panic
Because they don't have sports. They do have the others. -- 03:01, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Metropolitan90
Apparently, the tn207 bot has completely changed ip numbers. Can this be done with 'throw-away' accounts? I thought they stopped giving those sort of accounts. -- 02:41, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
[] edit Cloth
What is the name of Clothes used by Dr.No from the James Bond movie Dr.No?
It's a , isn't it? (Although that page only mentions a different James Bond villain.) Oddly enough, there was a question about those here just a couple of days ago. --Anonymous, 03:45 UTC, March 11, 2006. Nehru jacket
who
[] edit Soccer Made In Germany?
I've noticed there are no articles or links to the late 70s/early 80s PBS (United States) show "Soccer Made In Germany". I've spoken with many people who've discovered European football thru watching this show, not to mention the game Subbuteo, which was often plugged at the end of the program. The host was Toby Charles, who was also the play by play announcer in the movie "Victory", which was called "Escape to Victory" overseas.
I would love to have more information on this seminal show that brought so many Americans to the beautiful game of Soccer. The history, how it came to be, episodes, matches played, results, etc?
[] edit planet display
What is the correct name of the device that is a model of the planets and their positions as they rotate about the sun. I've seen them in antique stores.
. () 05:22, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Orrery Steve Summit talk
[] edit Tanaqui C Weaver
This question is about and by Diana Wynne Jones. Delirium (DC Comics) The Dalemark Quartet
So I was reading The Sandman Companion by Hy Bender, and in the bit about Delirium's origins, Gaiman mentions someone named Tanaqui C Weaver. The name hit a huge OMG ote with me - I'm a fan of Gaiman and DWJ, and I've followed the endless connections in-between their works (Nichothodes in Deep Secret, Eight Days of Luke/American Gods, Stardust/Half of DWJ's stuff, Hexwood), and now I see a new one - Tanaqui the weaver/witch from The Spellcoats, and this real-life person.
So, my question(s) is(are), does anyone know anything about who this person is? A writer, or an aquantiance? And was the book-Tanaqui named after the real-Tanaqui, or was it the other way 'round? Or is Tanaqui a real name?
(Apologies for the giant muddled fannish paragraph of doom.) 04:58, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Ductape Daredevil
Well if you look and search for "Tanaqui C. Weaver" (2 listings) you can find what might be his email. 07:40, 11 March 2006 (UTC) here CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Yes, she is a real person. Tanaqui C. Weaver named herself after the Diana Wynne Jones character. She has a long history of being an active member of the Oxford University Science Fiction Club. She is also the Tanaqui credited by Philip Pullman for bringing supplies of the right sort of paper, enabling him to finish writing The Amber Spyglass.
16:22, 25 May 2007 (UTC) 82.32.36.54
[] edit End of the world
Is the end of the world? this
Well it does say "So far, it is very difficult for humans to become infected with H5N1" so it's not all that likely. 07:43, 11 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Define 'world'. I challenge you to come up with a reasonable definition that makes the statement even the least bit plausible (provided you don't reduce 'end' to something silly). 08:29, 11 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
I suitly emphazi it for you, meets . 09:06, 11 March 2006 (UTC) World sun CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Yeah, that should do it. Don't tell any terrorists. 07:08, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit Java/C Implementation
What do I do with these to make them work? I found them online.-- 07:28, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Keycard () talk
I don't understand the question. What exactly did you find? If it's C or Java source code, you have to it, which can be very tricky. If it's Java bytecode, you have to run it with a . 18:42, 11 March 2006 (UTC) compile Java virtual machine Keenan Pepper
[] edit Blowfish/Twofish
Is there any way I can download these for use on my PC, rather than having to go online each time?-- 08:23, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Keycard () talk
You could use (GPG), which supports (amongst other things) Blowfish and Twofish. 10:56, 11 March 2006 (UTC) GNU Privacy Guard Matt Crypto
[] edit Military rankings
I've been watching MASH (TV series), and I'd like a little clarification about army ranks, as they would have been in the 1900s. -What's the difference between officers and enlisted personnel? -What is the sliding scale of ranks? You start off as ensign or private, and then go private -> corporal -> lieutenant -> captain -> major -> lieutenant colonel -> colonel -> major -> general? Thanks.
See . 09:41, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Military rank CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Also MASH wasn't set in the 1900s it was in the 1950s I think. 10:19, 13 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
[] edit Japanese PSone Games
What devices do I need to play Japanese playstation one games? Do I need a Japanese playstation one, or is there an add on I can use?
See . 15:03, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Modchip CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
What country do you live in? If you're American, you shouldn't need any extra equipment. If you're European, or Australian, you need either a boot disk (difficult to find now), a modchip (illegal in many parts of the world) or a Japanese PSone (really cheap now). It depends on what games you want, but you're better off buying your games directly from a Japanese store and getting them shipped, as they're a lot cheaper there (duh). I know that copies of cost up to US$180 in the States, but you can get them for the equivilent of US$15 in Japanese game stores. Your best option is to pay a friend in Japan to buy used games from stores and ship them to you, but you probably don't have a friend in Japan. If you have any pals who are heavy gamers, chances are they'll want an import title or two as well, and splitting the shipping costs really helps. 15:23, 11 March 2006 (UTC)Valkyrie Profile Taiq
[] edit Freeipods offer
i recently visited freeipods.com and i have a question. for the offer which you have to complete, can u not do it and still pretend u got it by having a special cookie. if so, where can u get the cookie? thanks
Dammit Jim, I'm an encyclopedia, not a hacking guide! 18:38, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
[] edit Turbo sound option on a TV set. + Ideal contrast/brightness/colour/etc ratios.
My TV has a two turbo options, for both picture and sound. What does it do?
On a related note, what are the recommended levels for contrast, brightness, colour and sharpness? I use my set only for DVDs, and it's set at Contrast: 100/100, Brightness: 50/100, Colour: 50/100, Sharpness: 100/100.
I recently acquired a new TV, and after a of fiddling with the settings, I discovered that contrast (on my set, at least) is best at about 30% of the way up. Brightness and sharpness and the other settings can be adjusted to taste (personally, brightness is about 70% of the way up, and sharpness is at about 90%). I think, though, that every television has a different optimal setting for these. Vis vis 'turbo' options, I have no clue. -- 15:45, 11 March 2006 (UTC)lot Sam Pointon United FC
Just a guess, but are the turbo options a quick way of switching between two settings? The turbo sound op could be used for when you want more bass for example, and the picture turbo could be for storing a preset for when you've got the lights off. You'd be best consulting the manual. 15:54, 11 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
Just a guess, but any button labeled "Turbo" on a mass-market product is usually only a step removed from . () 16:27, 11 March 2006 (UTC) go-faster stripes Steve Summit talk
Actually, some old (i.e. DOS era) PCs do have a turbo button which has an actual purpose - when turbo was off, the computer would run more slowly so that old games which would otherwise run too fast would be playable. -- | 19:19, 11 March 2006 (UTC) AJR Talk
haha yeah, those rocked, i had a 386sx with one of those... and then i had an AMD 486 p5x133 (don't ask), and the mainboard had a turbo header, so i connected the button... when you turned turbo 'off' though on the AMD, the entire machine would hang. But then when you turned the turbo back on it would keep running from where it left off. Very odd. incindentally eventually i clocked the chip up to 163 mhz (hell of a 486) but after a couple weeks it burnt out. ah such days. remember the pentiums that had the LED display of their clock speed, too? hahahaha. hilarious. 09:12, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Perle
I haven't a clue why but at my school we still have some of those machines. Turbo Button - display showing 75Mhz! Shame I'm too young to know these machines in real circulation. 17:37, 12 March 2006 (UTC) -Benbread
What's the make and model of the TV? 05:56, 12 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit about king cobra venom, and how it spitt its venom for defence mechanism
about king cobra venom, and how it spitt its venom for defence mechanism
You might wanna check the article for the information on the .... 17:25, 11 March 2006 (UTC) king cobra venom Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
[] edit Stone Temple Pilots
I heard a song by STP on the radio and they didn't say what song it was. It began with 'I am...' and something about roses I think. Could someone tell me the name of the song so I can get the CD?
Hii...I think the song that you are searching for is ... to the lyrics..... 17:20, 11 March 2006 (UTC)Dead Bloated heres the link Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
Thanks! That's the one!
You are welcome.....!! :-D... 18:07, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
It's "Dead & Bloated" actually. It's on their first album, . -- 18:27, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Core jh51681
Oh...k... Sorry about that... the name of the song was wrong on the website... 18:42, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
[] edit Questions: Video Game Concepts and Galley Components
Question 1: How would one go about getting into game design? As in, coming up with the concepts for video games and getting them made?
Question 2: How would one go about finding out what sorts of things, aside from wood and some shipwrights, go into a certain ship, such as a galley. So many variables would be involved, it seems impossible to find out. It would be nice if someone could provide me with something (A guide if at all possible. I'm not looking to build one, I'm just curious. :P) that could specifically list out what would be required to build a specific ship, so I could get a general idea. I think the Bible did a bit of that with Noah's Ark, but I think something a bit later on (ancient or medieval age) and not, no offense to theists, fictional would be better for my needs. :P -- 18:48, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Demonesque
For question 1: Befriend a programmer, graphics artist, etc who are interested in making games, and work together to make freeware or shareware games. Don't get your hopes up for this, though. Developers rarely hire people whose job is "coming up with ideas", you need to have some skill that will get you a job in the company -- skills involving programming or graphics -- and then pass on ideas to your superiors on the side until they notice you.
For question 2: Start with the articles and and follow links from there. -- 02:41, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Boat building Shipbuilding Metropolitan90
[] edit How much does each type of grad make?
I need to know how much money people make in a year (on average) in the U.S. for these levels:
High school dropout:
Doctorate Degree:
Or you can give me a website that has this. Thanks
There are so many variables in your question that the answers border on pointless. For example, what the subject area was of those who got a Masters degree. A degree holder in finance could make much more than one in education. I also know of several high school dropouts that made more than college graduates. Also, I'm guessing from the terms that you use that you're looking for U.S. statistics only? | 19:08, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
I'm going to disagree; this is far from pointless. You can say that, for example, the average Brazilian has a lower income than the average American, despite the fact that probably does a lot better than someone living in a poor section of . Anyways, I think the questioner has a point, and so does the , which released a report available on their page, specifically report . (this is a direct link to the report in PDF format; look at Figure 1 for a full set of numbers). It's actually pretty interesting reading; a bachelor's degree holder has about double the expected lifetime income of a high school dropout. 20:55, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Pele Detroit United States Census Bureau Population Reports 23-210 - The Big Payoff: Educational Attainment and Synthetic Estimates of Work-Life Earnings ByeByeBaby
The US Bureau of Labor Statistics also has loads of good info about income differences, as well as the gender gap. See . 21:03, 12 March 2006 (UTC) [16] Rhobite
[] edit Martial Arts
Hi,Does someone know the name of the martial art that combines Judo,Karate and Kung Fu?,because i forgot the name,I heard it long time ago,but i can't remember,thank you.
I don't know but you can look for it in . 21:10, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Category:Martial arts Keenan Pepper
Is it ? if not, try the category --your mom kajukenbo mixed martial arts
[] edit 4th of July 1879 grand baseball match
hello... i ran across your information site here, and i was wondering if there was any information you could give me on a poster i had found many years ago folded in the back of an old clock. it is a poster of a grand baseball match (its words not mine),between the diamond baseball club, and the concord baseball club of concord. on the concord grounds, at the rear of the fitchburg depot. it states that baseball not being "officially" an athletic sport is not announced by the executive committee. the time of the game is 8:30, and crossed out and penciled in at 9:00. apparently im not much of a researcher because i haven't been able to find any information on it, although i did find another poster like it in the library of congress, they didn't really give any information about it. and denied my request for information. you can see their copy of the poster online in the library of congress, Washington d.c. i was hoping you could tell me something about this day, and this game, i would be extremely interested in anything you could tell me. thank you for considering my question.
meagain... 04:59, 11 March 2006 (UTC) Meagain46247
Klongress's version can be viewed from . 22:25, 11 March 2006 (UTC) here this page
Slumgum
Seems to me like it's a poster announcing a baseball game, to be played in Concord. Reason says it's Concord, Mass. since they're playing against a Boston team, and since a "Fitchburg depot" is mentioned (presumably the depot for the train line from there to Fitchburg, Mass.) What I recommend would be to try to find the Concorde newspapers for that week. It'd usually be on microfilm in that case. Although you might need to go to a Massachusetts library to find it. (But that's how research is..) -- 17:22, 16 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
[] edit self-hypnosis tapes
Do those self-hypnosis tapes for getting rid of fears they sell at Amazon work or is it a scam? KeeganB
Not sure about the phobia tapes...I used a football (soccer) improvement hypnosis tape. It gave me the belief that I was a better player, which gave me more confidence which DID make me a better player. It may be psychsomatic, but if you believe it's working then it actually is. 22:19, 11 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
There's a good 20% chance that anything will work, if you believe it. This is the . Sometimes, it's a good last ditch effort. I used to have bad sinus problems, went the whole medical route, and finally decided to try the placebo effect. I decided to really believe that acupuncture would work, and it did! Never had a sinus problem again (plus I use seawater at the tiniest sign of a problem). Did it really work? Who knows, but the result was good enough for me. Good old 20%! -- 02:36, 12 March 2006 (UTC) placebo effect Zeizmic
Wait, that completely misses the point. "I'm going to take this placebo so I can get better, but I must believe it will work!" How the hell will you do this if you it's a placebo offhand!? 03:16, 12 March 2006 (UTC)know i ff
Ha, ha. When you are handed a white pill by a guy in a white coat, you are placed in a positive state of mind that this will work. You can induce the equivalent state of mind by visualization. You must suspend disbelief for the person in the white coat who is about to stick you full of needles. -- 14:32, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Anyone can try self-hypnosis with relaxation, positive thoughts and so on. If you need help (memorizing affirmations), just record the tapes yourself. -- 21:39, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit March 12
[] edit US Military Base in Mt. Kitanglad
ANYBODY KNOWS SOMETHING ABOUT THE US MILITARY BASE LOCATED IN MT. KITANGLAD, BUKIDNON, PHILIPPINES... I'VE HEARD A LOT OF RUMOURS ABOUT THIS STUFF... APPARENTLY IT CAN NOT BE DETECTED BY ANY RADAR FROM OTHER COUNTRIES SUROUNDING THIS AREA... ANYBODY?
Sounds like yet another . isn't used to detect land-based ground objects due to and no other countries are within radar range of the anyway. Physical isolation makes for good security (see, for example, ) but a "stealth base" is more than a little farfetched. 06:13, 12 March 2006 (UTC) conspiracy theory Radar ground clutter Philippines Groom Lake Lomn
Talk
Google earth found the place at 10 50'60.00"N - 123 20'60.00"E. It seems that powerful devices are in action night and day, because the image is far from good. -- 21:44, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
It made a lot of news when the U.S. pulled out of the Philippines in the early . I don't think there is anything there, covert or not. 10:54, 13 March 2006 (UTC) 1990s Mike H. That's hot
Only if you ask nicely. :) -- 16:20, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
[] edit Soda (Cosa-Cola) Bottle Units of Measurement
Hi,
I was at my colleague's place for dinner and we were discussing lot of things. I was asked the following question during the discussion. In America, everything is measured in English units (e.g. ounces, pounds, etc) but we see bottles of soda (e.g. coca-cola) marked in "liter (or litre)". Why just the soda bottles are marked in litre, which is metric system? Could you please let me know?
Thanks in advance,
GS
My guess is because Coca-Cola is produced and sold worldwide, and more countries use the metric system, so they can use the same label.--anonymuck
Still, the US internal market is big enough (especially for cola) for a separate bottle. Visiting Canadians or Mexicans bringing in (or back) 'wrong' bottles shouldn't be too much of a problem, realtively speaking. 07:15, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
The above guess is just wrong. Different countries have different labeling laws, which are likely to require things like nutritional information and ingredient lists in the local language or languages.
I think the actual explanation is that there was a program to introduce metric measure into general use in the US around 1975, the same as in Canada; but it lost political support and not much was done. If the Coca-Cola company (or one of its competitors) was introducing a new size of large bottle around that time, they may have decided to make it metric because if they didn't then they'd only have to change it when the conversion process was complete. When the new size caught on, the industry stayed with metric for other large sizes. This also is only a guess, but it makes sense. --Anonymous, 07:49 UTC [or in metric: 28.14 ks :-)], March 12, 2006.
says the 2-liter was introduced by Pepsi in 1970, when the U.S. was just starting to look at metrication. So it could have been in anticipation of a later large-scale move to metric in the U.S., or it could have been done so Pepsi could use the same bottles worldwide. There does seem to be a move toward standardization in pop-container sizes around the world. I remember when they had smaller cans in Canada; now they're "355 mL," that is, 12 oz. They've also introduced a 500-milliliter bottle in the U.S. (while charging the same as for an old 20 oz. bottle). -- 09:09, 12 March 2006 (UTC) This page Mwalcoff
That's interesting, because the 20 oz. bottle was itself a replacement for a previous 16 oz. bottle (in Canada, around the same time, the corresponding 500 ml size was replaced by 600 ml, which was later reduced to about 590 ml or 20 US fl.oz.). Of course, size changes are just one of those things marketers do; there's probably an article about it in Wikipedia somewhere, but I wouldn't know what to look under. Combining it with a unit switch is just being a bit trickier. --Anon, 06:14 UTC, March 13, 2006.
See also . 17:57, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Metrication in the United States Rmhermen
I think it's funny that yanks refer to them as "English units". Here in GB we call them "Imperial units". We have 330ml or 500ml cans and 2litre bottles. No-one born since the 1970s uses feet and inches any more, except for referring to the height of people. We still use miles, but that's about it as far as stupid measurements are concerned. 18:38, 12 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
Let me know when you trade your beloved pints of beer for a soulless "568 mL."
Selling pop in liters is OK. But when I hear about a "4-liter jug of milk," it makes me think of a futuristic dystopia where everything is rational and sterile and human emotions are banned. -- 03:46, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
This is very interesting to hear, because it's exactly what such a jug would be called in non-English-speaking country. I can imagine saying or hearing it in Finland just fine, for example. But then maybe the entire population of the continental Europe was replaced by soulless, unfeeling, sterile robots in the early 19th century. | 12:48, 13 March 2006 (UTC)any JIP Talk
(wink) But isn't it equally funny that the British still call them "Imperial units" when the British Empire, which is what the name refers to, has long since gone? LOL :-) 21:31, 12 March 2006 (UTC)
(smilies belatedly; they were always there. I must remember to verbalise my point of reference and facial language)
Slumgum
Indeed. Imperial units implies "the units that were used in Imperial times". 07:19, 14 March 2006 (UTC) 61.51.253.61
BTW although British and American units look the same they are oftern different, eg an American pint (0.473176473 litres) may not be the same as a British pint (0.56826125 litres). 01:44, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
I think it's odd that USA use oz for volume. A rational thought would be that an oz of water would be a lot larger than an oz of milkshake, because milkshake's denser. ;o) I try to pay no attention to that man behind the curtain. ;o)
"Ounce" in this sense is just short for , a unit is based on the volume of an ounce mass of water. --Anon, 06:14 UTC, March 13, 2006. fluid ounce
You'd think that I of all people would know why the abbreviation is "oz", but I must profess ignorance. I like doing this from time to time - it gives me a certain . 08:15, 13 March 2006 (UTC)je ne sais quoi JackofOz
Well, I don't know about 'je ne sais quoi', but I though that oz meant ounce and that was related to the Dutch 'ons', which is 500 gram. I now realise that there are two steps in metrication. One is to adopt, say, litres and another is to use those units 'logically', ie make litre and half litre bottles. Apparently, in Canada the oz was translated to litres and the bottles were kept the same, whereas in the Netherlands the 'ons' was redefined to make it more metric. It's hard to let go of old habits, irrespective of how little sense they make. 09:12, 13 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
What I meant was, the point of abbreviation is to reduce the number of letters (while still saying something meaningful). Adding the letter "z" seems to be going against this principle. There was no "z" in "ounce". How did it get into "oz"? 09:23, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
It's from the "Italian word onza" which is in the external link at . 10:31, 13 March 2006 (UTC) ounce here CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Ah, thank you all. Go with my blessing. Jack Imperator Rex.
[] edit creative zen micro into amp
hey guys,
i have a creative zen micro and i would like to hook it up so i can listen to it through my amp (line 6 spider II 30w). how might i do this?
I don't have the micro but I hook my zen from the headphone/earbud right to the amp. Works fine using a Y-adapter mini stereo plug to dual phon plugs. 05:42, 12 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit gameboy color power adapter
Is it okay if I use my digital camera's dc power adapter with my gameboy color? The gameboy color needs a 3volt power adapter, but the digital camera adapter gives off 3.7volts. When i turn on the gameboy with this, the POWER LED is rather bright, but i can cover it up with some paper and tape so it wont bother me. -- 05:26, 12 March 2006 (UTC) 172.156.124.158
The unusually bright LED is the sign of too much voltage flowing through that circuitry, which suggests that the gameboy is not equipped with any internal voltage regulation. You're putting the GB at fairly considerable risk, I'd say. 06:17, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Lomn
He's right. That extra 0.7 V can damage the circuit after some period of time. I suggest you to check some electronics store for an adapter on the correct voltage and current. 06:29, 12 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
Hmmm...okay. I guess I'll find a different way to power it.-- 172.156.124.158
[] edit Death
Do some people really die with thier eyes open, and if so, why and how?
I think i might have an answer for if the answer is 'yes'. Possible reason 1: because when you die, your eyelid muscles contract, and become open. Possible reason 2: your skin contracts when you die, so natural the eye lids open. [or not] --antiestablishmentarianist (your mom, or, anonymuck)
And then in films they move a hand over the eyes and they close. Assuming that works, it doesn't fit in with your explanations. I have always assumed the closing is a reflex still at work. Reflexes go on for a while after death, don't they? I don't have an answer to the question, but am inclined to turn it around. Why would people close their eyes when they die? 07:19, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
I would say it's because death is usually preceded by unconsciousness, which is generally characterised by closing of the eyes. 21:28, 12 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
To keep eyelids closed, one puts some coins : who would disdain two pence ? Also, it helps finding the murderer when the pupil keeps his portrait. -- 21:31, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
They aren't just moving the hand over the eyes, they're manually closing them. There's a special kind of large stiff contact lens with curved spikes on the eyelid-side used to keep people's eyes closed nowadays. (I bet if you asked someone at a funeral home, they'd show you.) If you're intrested in dead people try reading by Mary Roach. 20:32, 14 March 2006 (UTC)Stiff 64.198.112.210
Hmmm, that might even be possible. What if the retina somehow retains the state it was last in, so you can analyse that and see what the dead person saw last. Doesn't seem too unlikely. 09:16, 13 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
[] edit solar systemy names
Okay...why is our sun simply called "Sun", our moon called "the Moon" and our home planet just called "Earth"? I realize it may only be in English that the planets don't have names, but they deserve names.--antiestablishmentarianist
The sun is formally known as "Sol" and the moon "Luna" (and less frequently, "Selene"). "Earth" is now considered a proper name and should be capitalized, in addition to the lower-case "earth" meaning "dirt". 06:19, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Lomn
See also . 06:30, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Earth#Lexicography CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Moon was the first moon we knew. Only then did we learn that there are other moons. So the question should be the other way around. Why didn't we come up with a generic name for 'moons'? (satelites, orbiters?) 'Our Sun' is also the wrong way around. There are many stars and our star is the Sun. When we learned that we already knew of the existence of stars and had a name for them ('star'), so the moon0problem could not arise.The
What do you mean planets don't have names? They do. At least the known ones in our solar system. I suspect a fundamental misunderstanding on your part, but can't figure out what it is. 07:30, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
I think he's counting the sun and the moon as planets. 10:50, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
I was just generalizing. Okay then. --antiestablishmentarianist
In fact, I have always wondered the exact opposite question. Why does every non-terrestrial race in science fiction refer to themselves and their planet by an imaginative proper name? Why don't they just call themselves "people" and their planet "Earth" like we do? | 12:43, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
Because SF movies/books are 'translated' into human languages so that the human reader can understand them... 17:50, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
Are you saying that, for example, the word "Klingon" is Klingon for "people"? | 18:24, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
I think he's more likely saying that "Klingon" is Klingon for "human". - 03:26, 14 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
So Klingons call humans Klingons? Actually, you brought up the right word. It's not just aliens who use proper names for themselves. We don't call ourselves just 'us'. We've got the word 'human'. The reason for which is that there are other animals on this planet we want to distinguish ourselves from. And I suppose the Klingons had some on their home planet. Which is called Kronos, but many sf aliens have the same name as their planet and the language is often named after them too. We don't call our planet nor our language 'human'. Actually, why is there often just one language on one planet? We've got loads here, so why don't they? If only sf writers would do some more field research. :) 06:27, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
It's pretty hard to generalize about science fiction. However, sometimes our planet is called Terra and "we" are called Terrans (but not terra-ists, we'll leave those to be handled by W). In the great shiny future often depicted, all of the nations on our planet have found peace, and use a common language -- English of course (and American English, to be sure!). Or perhaps we've all had put into our ears. -- 14:49, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Babel fish LarryMac
Ah yes, like in (great series!). And the of course. 09:48, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Farscape Hitchhiker's guide to the Galaxy DirkvdM
[] edit answer to Pi
If I found a way (or pattern) to calculate Pi, or if I found the answer to the who could i sell the idea to, and for how much? Could I charge 100 billion dollars for the answer of any of these?--antiestablishmentarianist Dorabella Cipher
I'm not sure what you mean by the 'calculating Pi' bit, considering Pi is irrational and has an infinite number of decimal places, so you will never be able to stop at a certain digit and say "ah ha, this is the EXACT value of Pi". Even so, we already have a number of algorithms for calculating (or at least giving a good approximation of Pi. 06:20, 12 March 2006 (UTC) 219.93.29.135
For Pi: nope, not a cent. Pi is calculable to arbitrarily high numbers of digits and only 15 or so are necessary for any conceivable purpose. For Dorabella: There's a good chance of a cash prize floating around somewhere for an unsolved problem, but it's likely just a curiosity, not a cryptographic revolution. Something on the order of a few thousand dollars might be reasonable. 06:22, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Lomn
Talk
If you're looking to get rich by solving a math problem, try . They're worth a million each. 07:19, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Clay Mathematics Institute#The Millennium Prize problems Keenan Pepper
Of course, you could always write a book on it. You wouldn't make 100 bn, but plenty of people would probably buy it. Even though Pi is known to be , we don't know if it is normal (which sort of equates to 'randomly distributed'), so working that out would be pretty cool. -- 19:12, 12 March 2006 (UTC) transcendental Fangz
Hold on, isn't pi used in data encryption in some way? I can't remember and doesn't seem to mention it. Is that a different number? Anyway, loooooads of money to be made there. Possibly more if you use your knowledge illegally to read encrypted messages. 06:31, 14 March 2006 (UTC) pi DirkvdM
No, I don't think it isn't. It'd be rather pointless, since pi is so easily accessible. But are, indeed, used for data encryption, particularly, the algorithm. 07:29, 14 March 2006 (UTC) prime numbers RSA i ff
I could give you the answer to your question, but it will cost you... 09:25, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Matt Crypto
[] edit about asian gangs
whut is the name of an Asian gang who are based in Portland Oregon?
A "Laotian street gang in Portland called the Red Cobra Bloods" from . 07:33, 12 March 2006 (UTC) here CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Jails in Manitoba
Is there any jails in Manitoba, that students can visit to be educated?-- 07:24, 12 March 2006 (UTC) 142.161.238.21
There's a list of them with contact numbers. You could phone and check. 07:31, 12 March 2006 (UTC) here CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
What kind of education are you looking for? :) 07:34, 12 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
I used to live in Manitoba. You could try Stony Mountain Penitentiary.
How to play the music in b-side?-- 10:15, 12 March 2006 (UTC) ka hang
Turn the record over. 10:51, 12 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
. 10:56, 12 March 2006 (UTC) B-side CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
But I meant of a CD, will it play if I turn it over?-- 11:58, 13 March 2006 (UTC) ka hang
Generally not. Never if it is printed on one side. There is no b-side. Some DVD disks are double sided - you can usually tell bceause both sides are shiny. 12:16, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
Well if you'd turn the player over it should work. You'd get the same music, though. 06:32, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Then why 's has B-side? Where are those songs???-- 06:04, 16 March 2006 (UTC)
'N Sync No Strings Attached ka hang
Those are bonus tracks. They are called B sides regardless of being a CD. The above link to B sides has plenty of info. The name came from vinyl, and still applies. Some CD singles may contain the singles plus an unreleased track or two (B sides), on vinyl, that was the backside of the record, as opposed to A side. Vinyl singles are still around, used for promotional copies, and DJ's use them also. Oh, and some countries have bonus tracks on the CD, which may include B sides, to answer that part of your question. 07:04, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Willzyx
So does it mean that "B-side" of a compact disc is actually bonus track placed behind regular tracks but not turn the disc over and play?-- 09:48, 16 March 2006 (UTC) ka hang
Yep, it's just the name, a holdover from the days of 45 rpm vinyl singles, where'd you get one track on each side. Double-sided CDs do exist, but are rarely if ever used for singles -- given that a single generally uses less than a third of the available capacity on one side, it'd be a complete waste of time and effort. -- 10:40, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
OK, I got it. Thanks all!! -- 13:16, 16 March 2006 (UTC) ka hang
[] edit "I Hope I Never" rap cover.
Has anyone heard it. The chorus is taken from Split Enz "I hope i never". after much in depth searching, i cannot find the artist/s of this rap cover.
any help would be MUCH appreciated. 13:18, 12 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
Really? I found it appears to be by the band . 17:23, 12 March 2006 (UTC) this Split Enz Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
re-read the question, K-L. Gelo's looking for a of the Split Enz original (and Split Enz aren't exactly rap). I must admit I've never heard of this version, and would be quie interested in finding out who did it myself... ... 00:33, 13 March 2006 (UTC)rap cover Grutness
Excuse you, . 10:50, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Be nice Mike H. That's hot
Found it! It's "Cry again" by . See . ... 05:41, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Dei Hamo here Grutness
THANK YOU! 11:19, 14 March 2006 (UTC) gelo
[] edit Legend Of Zelda Ocarina Of Time - Ocarina Notes
Does anybody know the notes for the ocarina on the c pad?
its a game man, the ocarina's notes probably don't match the same frequency of actual notes. if anybody know the notes, don't let this stop you from answering his questiondoes
has an . There is a note chart at the bottom. -- 22:21, 13 March 2006 (UTC) GameFAQs Ocarina Tunes FAQ jh51681
Never link externally to a file on GameGAQs. It just won't work. You have to link to the big ol' list of guides. -- 16:42, 14 March 2006 (UTC)FOOL! Optichan
Well i found the link on gamefaqs, it apears it's true, thanks man
[] edit Who was the first president to receive a patent?
I'm having trouble with my homework. It asks me what president was the first to receive a patent. I need to receive an answer to this question by 7:00 today
Do you have any particular country in mind? If you'll stretch to kings, the has several. 23:34, 12 March 2006 (UTC) King of Thailand Mark your words
In the U.S., see . 23:44, 12 March 2006 (UTC) [17] Rmhermen
Considering this is about patents, the meaning of 'president of a conpany' makes more sense. The article says "The first patent law was a Venetian Statute of 1474", so the answer should be there around that time I suppose. 09:23, 13 March 2006 (UTC) patent DirkvdM
[] edit dumbfounded
PLEASE help me! I absolutely cannot find a way to contact Genndy Tartakovsky, the creator of my favorite show Samurai Jack. If somewhere you were left an email or postal address after creating a page on the hit series, send it to me at [email removed] or respond below -Please and Thankyou (for reading, even if this can't be helped)please
I suggest you to actually call Cartoon Network and go through their bureaucratic hell. They probably won't give you any information if you're just a fan, though. 01:00, 13 March 2006 (UTC) i ff
Dammit Jim, I'm an encyclopedia, not a phone book for celebrities! 01:01, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Who exactly is Jim? 17:39, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
17:59, 13 March 2006 (UTC) James T. Kirk Brian Schlosser42
And in today's episode, the part of is being played by . -- 19:37, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy Keenan Pepper LarryMac
I'm kinda trying to make that a fad. I think it's funnier than "suitly emphazi". 23:48, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
It's sad (for us old guys), to think that this zoomed over the head of the young 'uns. -- 19:01, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
I got it... 20:38, 14 March 2006 (UTC) 64.198.112.210
[] edit refund theft
Isn't it stupid to practice ? refund theft
You may get some goods but you leave a highly visible trail that can come back to haunt you. If you're a Target executive, you have a list of stolen goods (you check your stocked items quarterly, don't you?) from all shops, a list of refund records from all shops, you can easily create a list of suspects. And then you keep an eye on them if they come again.
Let's say if buys an expensive DVD recorder today and he's on the watchlist, you can ask your guys to mark the other DVD recorders (one dirt cheap RFID tag would be good enough). If Allen takes a marked DVD recorder to the counter and asks for refund, call the police. Allen
Do shops in the U.S. use RFID tags to counter refund theft? -- 05:12, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Toytoy
The desperate, the lazy, and the misguided often do stupid things. So do stupid people. 09:15, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
Yes, it's stupid to practice . So is practicing any other sort of theft.- 10:04, 14 March 2006 (UTC) refund theft 131.211.210.13
[] edit Email confirmation regulations
I recently signed up to a UK National Science Week thing, and the ritual confirmation email said that it had to be confirmed "to comply with UK regulations". What are these-- 18:04, 13 March 2006 (UTC) 84.51.149.80
, at a guess (which is mainly about cold calling and giving the TPS teeth; section 22 is the email bit). From the sounds of it, they're covering themselves particularly vigorously -- if you gave them your email when you signed up then (as I read it, but IANevenremotelyAL) they only have to make sure you can opt out later. Then again, maybe they're considering the "practical joker puts in address of their victim to get them spammed" angle. -- 08:42, 14 March 2006 (UTC) The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations, 2003 Bth
[] edit Name for a baby sea lion and baby sea otter
My son is doing a project for school and he needs an 11 letter word for a baby sea lion and a 5 letter word for sea otter. Can you help. Thanks. Pat
has "whelp" for the sea otter. I can't find anything with 11 letters for the young sea lion. -- 19:16, 13 March 2006 (UTC) This page LarryMac
Well, "babysealion" has 11 letters and "otter" has 5 letters. | 19:26, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
pup would work, if you don't count the space. -- 21:59, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Pinniped LarryMac
[] edit one piece pajama sleepers.
Good Day,
First thank you for your help. I want to know what year was the blanket sleeper invented. You can e-mail me back at (email removed to protect you from spammers, and please read the top of the page)
Do to a family difference this question has been driving me crazy. I really appreciate it if you would clear this up for me.
Thank you kindly, Laura Miltz
I couldn't find an answer, but I didn't like seeing the email sitting there for potential harvesting by ne'er-do-wells. -- 21:54, 13 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
Did you try searching under the name  ? Here's a pic: . I got 1865 by doing some math based on the following article: 22:38, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Dr. Denton [18] [19] StuRat
They are also called or . Here's a pic: . 00:00, 14 March 2006 (UTC) footy pajamas footed pajamas [20] StuRat
[] edit Guantanamo Bay
[After above five edit conflicts!] According to the Daily Mail a few days ago (a very Conservative and pro-George W. Bush newspaper), there is a technique used at Guantanamo Bay saying that the convited lies down on a board and their legs are raised. Then cling-film is placed over their nose and mouth, then water is poured onto their faces. Now, what exactly is this supposed to do the convict. Obviously it's supposed to force them to release informarion, but how does it really "work"? Thanks! 19:33, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
I'd like to see the source for that info, please. Specifically I want to know if they said those things do happen there, or if they are just stating a rumor they heard somewhere. 22:31, 13 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I haven't tried it myself, but if enough water is poured onto the face, I would think the answer would be "kill". The weight of the water pushes the cling film tightly onto the nose and mouth, cutting off access to fresh air, and the convict dies of asphyxiation. At least that's an extreme case. | 19:56, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
See . 20:04, 13 March 2006 (UTC) waterboarding Rmhermen
Please note that a Gitmo detainee is not "the convicted" or "convict" as they have not been tried. -- 20:12, 13 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
Yes, I suppose; but some have been and have remained there for several years. 21:20, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Kilo-Lima Vous pouvez parler
They're not suspects, they're not convicts, they're not prisoners of war. If we were to ask the US Government what they , then, the reply would be "Who cares? They're bloody ragheads, and we will incarcerate them just because we can. Now shut up or we'll bomb your sorry little cheese-eating country back to stone age." Or am I exaggerating again? =) | 21:34, 13 March 2006 (UTC)are JIP Talk
Yes, you've gone way over the deep end. They call them "detainees", but suspects would be a fair way to characterize them. They are only there because the US suspects them of being terrorists. If the US sent every turban-wearer it could there, they would have millions in custody, not just a few hundred. 22:31, 13 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Sorry about that, then. But I had to express my contempt about the way the Bush administration originally handled the situation. | 22:39, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
You are indeed exaggerating. We found it too tedious to bomb people back to the Stone Age, so now we bomb them only back to the Iron Age. 06:23, 16 March 2006 (UTC) JamesMLane
They're not suspects in the legal sense of the word because they don't fall under any jurisdiction. That's the whole point of gitmo, isn't it? 06:53, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Finnish cheese? Is it any good? 21:48, 13 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
Yes, actually. Finland produces rather good Edam, I eat it often on bread or Karelian pastries. Grated Polar cheese goes well with pasta, it's almost as good as Mozzarella. I am also a fan of blue cheese but I think that comes from Denmark. | 21:52, 13 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
Denmark has and France has . Both nice (if you like blue fungi). And is Dutch, thank you very much. 06:53, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Danish blue bleu Edam DirkvdM
It would be nice if the link were blue too. Don't look at me, I'm no expert, I just eat the stuff. 06:57, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Danish blue DirkvdM
Since I raised the question of the terminology for the detainees, and I am a US citizen, will "they" be bombing me? I have a good idea where they could start. Also, I hope that Polar cheese doesn't have anything to do with bears!  :-) -- 21:57, 13 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
?!? As a Dutchman I have to say I find this very disturbing. 22:12, 13 March 2006 (UTC)Finnish Edam David Sneek
Yes, it is Finnish Edam cheese. It is made by , a Finnish dairy company. No, Polar cheese does not have anything to do with bears. Not all "polar" things are . And no matter what people tell you, there are no native polar bears in Finland. That was a myth originally dating back to the early 20th century, when the statues of normal brown bears (which native to Finland) in the Paris World Fair had not been painted yet when the pavillion was opened. | 22:36, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Valio polar bears are JIP Talk
Finnish Edam worries me a bit, too - everyone knows the finest Edam comes from New Zealand! :) ... 22:53, 13 March 2006 (UTC) (who personally prefers a nice Whitestone Brie) Grutness
Editorial
They Came for the Chicken Farmer
This has been our nightmare since the Bush administration began stashing prisoners it did not want to account for in Guant namo Bay: An ordinary man with a name something like a Taliban bigwig's is swept up in the dragnet and imprisoned without any hope of proving his innocence.
... President Bush told Americans to trust in his judgment after he arrogated the right to arrest anyone, anywhere in the world, and toss people into indefinite detention. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld infamously proclaimed that the men at Guant namo Bay were "the worst of the worst."
... Far too many show no signs of being a threat to American national security. Some, it appears, did nothing at all. And they have no way to get a fair hearing because Gitmo was created outside the law.
Take the case of Abdur Sayed Rahman, as recounted in Monday's Times. The transcripts quote Mr. Rahman as saying he was arrested in his Pakistani village in January 2002, flown to Afghanistan, accused of being the Taliban's deputy foreign minister and then thrown into a cell in Guant namo Bay. "I am only a chicken farmer in Pakistan," he said, adding that the Taliban official was named Abdur Zahid Rahman.
Hopefully they catch some dairy farmers who wear cheap watches as well. -- 03:24, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Casio Toytoy
Also they planned to propagate bird flu in tiny sealed envelopes, pretending it was a wedding present. They are dangerous. -- 18:51, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
I accidentally ran into this mixture of views, and I really don t want to alter the opinion people have about US Government Affairs. I am an eight year USMC Vet including half of my enlistment in the thick of things overseas in Iraq. I have had duty handling detainees, and I agree that some of them do not deserve to be there. Generally they are treated well, and I am not allowed to disclose any specific techniques for "Information Extraction" But I have never seen anything quite that cruel. Unfortunately when trying to get any information from some of these people; being nice doesn t really work all that well. For that matter just keeping them well behaved you have to show them there are consequences to acting out. They are not imprisoned (Innocent or otherwise) to be hugged, and well loved. I can hardly see myself condoning torture, or abuse to someone who is imprisoned. I was appalled by the actions of that demented Army girl who built naked Iraqi Pyramids, and there is no doubt in my mind that other similar incidents have happened numerous times by individual service members. People do abuse their power when they are ignorant. To say that George Bush is directly involved with torture techniques is all a bit ridiculous in my mind. I am not a pro or a con when it comes to our commander and chief, he disappoints me half the time and impresses me the other half. He gets blamed for everything from terrorist attacks to hurricanes which almost makes it seem as if people believe he has some God like ability to snap his fingers and fix the world if he wants to, but chooses not to. When he waited a month to declare official war the world screamed, What s taking you so long? Many of those same people seem to have forgotten the thousands of American lives Jihads (Whatever you want to call them) have ended since the late seventies and now they are asking, Why are we there? The fact is unless you are involved you simply can t wrap your brain around the intangibles. The Media can expose so many ulterior motives from oil, to torture, but the Media also has ulterior motives; namely sales, and political agenda. I see both sides of the fence on all of these issues, and I have been directly involved. Incidentally the old "I am only a chicken farmer!" trick has been the default story for enemy soldiers, terrorists and insurgents since everything started, what do chicken farmers use 155mm Artillery shells for? All this talk about polar bears, cheese and chicken made me hungry!
Sometimes literature can dance, like in poem by : this Friedrich H lderlin
...nun eilt er,
Der Linkische; der spottet der Schlacken nun,
Und nimmt und bricht und wirft die Zerbrochenen
Zorntrunken, spielend, dort und da zum
Schauenden Ufer, und bei des Fremdlings
Besondrer Stimme stehen die Herden auf,
Es regen sich die W lder, es h rt tief Land
Den Stromgeist fern, und schaudernd regt im
Nabel der Erde der Geist sich wieder.
More generally, I'd say that what connects them is music. The relationship between dance and music is evident, and in literature too, the rhythms of the language, the melody of a sentence are often striving towards music. 20:54, 13 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
I thought I could read German, but now I'm not sure anymore. Then again, I get the same sort of feeling when I read Dutch poetry. It's all Chinese to me. 07:00, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
They both have accepted forms and traditions, but continue to excite because of the room for personal expression in the execution. They both convey this to others in ways that are rarely overt are both seldomly done completely privately. - 03:17, 14 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
There were Muses for both. Danse may be practised alone or collectively, the last is less found in writing. Danses evolve, books stay (but inseminate ideas for new books).
You can find a text about a dance, as in Kings(number it) when David recalls his dancing. Less frequent : a dance about a text, or maybe it was a dance before a bonfire of bad books. Dancing is elaborate, but came before writing which is differently elaborate. Do your eyes dance when you read too much or when the text makes you feel dizzy ? -- 18:45, 14 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit Unknown Research Institute
Am reposting my question from for a little more discussion (even if it is against the rules): WP:RD/H
Does anyone know of a fledgling "Blakeley Research Institute" based in Geneva? I and some of my colleagues have been receiving encrypted mails from someone there for some time already. The cipher was Vigen re, and decryption revealed a threat of some sort to a colleague. I've checked with the police, and they say they're doing everything they can, but meanwhile, we're still getting these letters! Google didn't turn up anything, so it could be a hoax, but just checking to see if there really is no such place. After all, Google has been known to make mistakes. Thanks. 22:52, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Igor the Lion (Roar!)
[] edit Stocks
Where can I find the price of a certain stock from a certain date in history? I'm looking for the price of Socket Communications (SCKT) on April 6, 2004. Thanks, | 22:57, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
Nevermind, found it. | Dismas (talk)
Where? Tell us! -- ] 11:27, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Mac Davis .
There are probably other sites that do the same but I went to CNN.com, went to the financial section, got a current quote for the stock, then I saw a link for a historical quote. After getting to that page all you have to do is plug in the date and it'll give you the high, low, and close from that day.
[] edit Memory Recall
How does memory recall work or how does our brains recall stored images, memories, etc.? What does that involve and how do neurotransmitters play a role in this?
Short answer: Nobody knows. You should become a neuroscientist and figure it out. 23:49, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Longer answer: See . 23:50, 13 March 2006 (UTC) Memory#Physiology Keenan Pepper
I used to know the answer, but my memory recall fails me at the moment. 00:10, 14 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
From memory (mine is still somewhat functional) and some 'original research': Neurons connect due to stimuli caused by incoming currents from the senses, forming patterns that grow stronger as the same thing is observed more often. Thus, the logic is formed that 'if I see , then must be there too, because that has regularly been the case before '. You can also conjure up these images by thinking about them. Those are called memories. Neurotransmitters pass on the stimuli between the neurons (the name sort of gives that away). 07:12, 14 March 2006 (UTC)thisthat DirkvdM
[] edit wedding invitations
My son is getting married on the beach this summer in California, which is home to both Bride and Groom. My son is stationed in GA, he is in the Air Force and on a minimum budget. On the wedding invitation we want to request gift cards or cash, as it would be difficult to mail all of the gifts to GA. How do we gracefully make this request. What is proper ediquite in this situation?
Tell people to send gift cards to California but that any other items are to be sent direct to the Georgia address. You'll find most of them opt for the former. 02:28, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
Maybe something along the lines of:
We're honoured by your presence at this union and even more by your involvement in our lives. Even as we already express this with spirit, life, love and communication, these channels don't carry mail, and the ones that do charge a heavy premium. If you wish to express your love and joy for this occasion with a material gift, please let it be one that fits inside a little envelope.
Or something that more suites your personality. - 03:09, 14 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
I'm impressed! :) | 03:35, 14 March 2006 (UTC) flamingspinach (talk)
Thanks, I work extra hard for the public domain. - LambaJan
Maybe has some answers too. 07:15, 14 March 2006 (UTC) ediquite DirkvdM
would be spinning in her grave, if she were dead. But she's not, although yet another question about how to properly phrase an extortion request on a wedding invitation might just do it. 1. There is no obligation on any guest to provide a gift of any kind, although traditionally most guests will do so. 2. Those that are invited to the wedding are presumably supposed to be close friends and relations who know who lives where etc. 3. If one insists on treating the wedding as little more than a glorified , then one should assume burden of the freight charges. -- 14:34, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Miss Manners rent party LarryMac
Dude, Miss Manners isn't dead. - 02:37, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
As he said, "if she were dead". etiquette does not mention gifts at all. | 03:39, 15 March 2006 (UTC)Proper User:Zoe (talk)
I also said "But she's not"; I'm not sure how that could have been clearer. -- 16:33, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
Sorry, it was very late. - 20:39, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
[] edit March 14
[] edit From by Irvine Welsh: "the purple tin"Filth
I've looked, but I can't find out what kind of beverage is referred to as "the purple tin" in the book. I'm assuming it's some kind of cheap, potent malt liquor or lager, but what brand?. I've been to Scotland, but didn't see any "purple tins." 02:55, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
Super (see ) which is indeed comparable to US . 05:20, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Tennents [21] malt liquor Charles P._
(Mirv)
They're not in purple tins, they're dark blue. I don't think they're comparable to malt liquor either as Tennants Super is only about 12% alcohol by volume. 12:03, 14 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
U.S. malt liquors are less than that - between 6 and 10 % according to our article. Despite the name they are not "hard liquor". 16:25, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
Yes, it's Tennants Super, in the purple tinnies. Ex sponsors of , I think. They're called purple, despite being dark blue . Um, I mean, I don't know why they're described as being purple. 16:36, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Rangers
because Scottish people are stupid
[] edit Party
Does someone the name of a libertarian-socialistic political party in the United States?
What does "libertarian-socialistic" even mean? and are very different philosophies. 04:18, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Libertarianism socialism Keenan Pepper
Do you want to tell the editors of , or shall I? ;) -- 08:24, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Libertarian socialism Bth
[] edit Zacarias Moussaui
When he first was in the news, they pronounced his name ZACK-CAR-I-US. Now why do they pronounce it ZA-CARRY-US. What's with the pronouncation change?
Most likely someone told them the right way to do it and they'd been guessing incorrectly before that. Happens surprisingly often. -- 08:26, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
[] edit Burlington Railway in Chicago
I was wondering if you would be able to locate some contact information to the Burlington Northern Railroad? I understand that they operate out of Chicago but it has been very hard to locate any actual telephone numbers and addresses. Hector M. Saldana
It's now Burlington Northern Santa Fe (there was a merger) and their head office is in Texas. If you do a Google phrase search on their name (or even just "burlington northern") their home page is the first hit, and like many companies, there is a "contact us" link on it -- in fact Google also gives you a direct link to that. with a central phone number and links for different departments. --Anonymous, 17:08 UTC, March 14, 2006. Here's the contacts page
If you are looking for information on the , you might have to start with Metra. -- 17:10, 14 March 2006 (UTC) commuter line LarryMac
Our article on gives historical information about the pre-merger company, and directs you to for the article about the current company. If in fact you mean the Chicago-area commuter line, its article at includes the URL for its website. At you'll find the contact information. 06:38, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Burlington Northern Railroad BNSF Railway BNSF Railway Line http://metrarail.com/contact-Metra.html JamesMLane
[] edit orgin surname hill
[Question moved here from the Help Desk by ] User:Kilo-Lima
family name hill in 1792 in tyrell county, north carolina where can i find the family history and where did the name hill come from?
Place surnames generally refer to the place the bearer of the name lived. People with the surname 'Hill' may have lived on or under a hill, or next to an important hill. 20:50, 14 March 2006 (UTC) 64.198.112.210
FWIW, there are a few famous Hill families, one of them I know of well (since my SO is a descendant) is the Hills of in , who can be traced back to the 14th century pretty readily - the original surname in that case was "Hull", which is simply a midlands English variety of the same name. The surname Hill is very common, and originates largely from western England, particularly from north to about . As to where your particular ancestors with that surname came from, there are any number of good genealogy websites around which might be able to help. ... 00:42, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Hodnet Shropshire, England Devon Worcestershire Grutness
wha?
[] edit song artist and title
can you please tell me what the artist and title was to a song that i heard at the tri nations rugby league games that the teams came out to.
[] edit where to find the history of Hamilton, Ont. Canada
Hi - I am new to this web site and I am wondering where I go to search for history of cities. Thanks J
We have a specific article for . More generally, the search box mid-way down the left hand column (if you're on the default skin) is a good way to try and find things. -- 20:57, 14 March 2006 (UTC) History of Hamilton, Ontario Bth
[] edit Changing Currency For Large Sums
If I go to study in Holland, I'll want to convert about 8000 into Euros. What is the cheapest way I can do this? What are the chances of UK converting to the Euro in the next couple of months? Wont someone please think of the students!! -- 21:50, 14 March 2006 (UTC) Username132
There are places on the high street which will convert money commission-free, I think the Post Office may be one. Have a look around. There's no chance of the UK adopting the Euro without at least 12 months notice, which as yet doesn't look like happening at all. 22:24, 14 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
They may convert the money commission-free, but the at which they do the conversion is usually lousy. Banks may charge a commission, but the rates are often more attractive. Try your bank. Oh, and presumably you'll open a bank account in Holland, so rather than get the whole 8000 quid converted to cash (which is of course a theft risk and attracts the attention of security people) it may be easier to open the bank account and get the money into the new account. -- 00:00, 15 March 2006 (UTC)rate wire transferred Robert Merkel
Well could I open two accounts in different countries (UK and say, France) with the same bank, transfer the money to Europe and then transfer it to an account in the Netherlands? -- () 10:07, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Username132 talk
The best and safest thing you can do is find out which banks in Holland have a reciprocal arrangement with your bank (if you're with any of the big ones, Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds, etc, there are banks in Holland that have such agreements), and just withdraw money over there using your UK cash card. You'll pay no commission, get a better exchange rate, and not have to worry about converting 8 grand in one go. You shouldn't need to bother opening an account in the Netherlands, unless you plan on working part-time when you're there (as getting paid then becomes a pain). If you do plan on working whilst you're there, then opening account wil be easier if you pick a bank chain that your bank has an agreement with (as before). 12:27, 15 March 2006 (UTC)far Proto ||
type
By the way to answer the other part of your question, there is no chance at all that the UK would convert to Euros in the next couple of months. Even if they decided to do it today, the preparations would take years. 15:18, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
I have a 1917 $2 bill and I am wondering how much it is worth?
What condition is it in ? 22:39, 14 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I don't have a book handy, but large notes are rare. A large $2 note is even rarer. My advice is to check out a book on paper currency and figure out what grade it is. Then call or email or visit some coin and currency dealers for an appraisal. 00:57, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
[] edit March 15
[] edit Social Security numbers after you die
What happens to a Social Security number when a person dies? Is it recycled? Reused? If a person dies, can someone take his SSN and steal his identity, get a credit card and buy stuff? The article didn't say. -- 02:22, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Blue387
The Social Security Administration does not re-use numbers (see Q20@), and records when someone dies (their "Death Index" is useful for genealogical researchers), and has done so since at least 1962. Someone using a SSN of a person with a valid death certificate would probably get caught pretty quick. -- 02:39, 15 March 2006 (UTC) [22] [23] Fastfission
What if there was no death certificate? Someone can take the SSN of a recent dead person and steal his/her identity. I read it could happen ; see #12. -- 03:05, 15 March 2006 (UTC) here Blue387
What if a person was thought dead but actually wasn't and, when he returned to his hometown, used his number again? Would he get arrested, esp. if he had lost his ID and other means of identification? 15:15, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Igor the Lion (Roar!)
Check out and . 04:26, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Fingerprints DNA Here7ic
See for some info on that 01:31, 16 March 2006 (UTC) [24] Oskar
As Finnish social security numbers include the date of birth (and are not recycled when the century changes, even that has been taken into account), someone else getting your social security number would involve that person travelling back in time and getting born at a different time. So therefore I think it's pretty impossible. | 18:26, 19 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
[] edit Travel Question
How far is it from Flachau (Austria), Seoul (South Korea), and Moscow (Russia) to Torino, Italy?
If this is a question, the distance obviously depends on the route you take. But if you just want the great-circle distance, can compute it for you (I don't know to what accuracy). Flachau is not in their database of place names, but you can enter the coordinates. From my map of Austria, I make it to be at 47:20N 13:24E (degrees and minutes). --Anonymous, 03:48 UTC, March 15, 2006.travel this web page
[] edit The Marvel Comics Charactor called Punisher
I have been curious for some time about a few things pertaining to the Punisher Story lines. What was his wifes name? What was her maiden name? How many children did they have? What is the real name of his arch enemy Jigsaw? How did Jigsaw get the scars?
Thats it for now.
You might look at our articles on and , which seem to have that information in them. -- 02:36, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Punisher Jigsaw (comics) Fastfission
[] edit guninea pig's hearing
My daughter is doing a science experiment with her guinea pig, Kiwi. We have had Kiwi for 7 months. Her experiment is to test the affects of different kinds of music on her guinea pig, as the control pig, and other guinea pigs. My daughter plans on playing the flute, singing to her and playing classical, country, pop and rock music. She appears to have very sensitive hearing. When I walk in the room very quietly and she appears to be sound asleep, her head pops up automatically.
Just for background information, my daughter would like to include some info on their hearing in general. I have seen references to hearing loss testing but nothing about their actual hearing sensitivity.
Does anyone have any information and can point me in the right direction to get such knowledge?
Thank you. type -- 03:37, 15 March 2006 (UTC) 66.75.148.101
A google search for "" indicated that they are used in medical experiments about human hearing loss because the configuration their inner ear is very similar to a human's. That doesn't mean that they hear the same things, though. -- 05:10, 15 March 2006 (UTC) guinea pig hearing Robert Merkel
Using a guinea pig for experimentation. How original. Especially when it's a flightless guinea pig. 09:56, 15 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Yes, I never tried using one that doesn't fly. - 20:42, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
I think that maybe they're good at sensing vibrations. I walk very quietly, and thay always notice me. But then again, they wheek at plastic noises, too. 20:37, 20 March 2006 (UTC) 64.198.112.210
[] edit Mr. Sub commercials (Canada)
The Canadian sandwich chain has been running a couple of really odd commercials. I'm wondering if anyone else can enlighten me with the proper interpretation. Mr. Sub
In the first, a man of about 30 is sitting in a basement, slowly turning a light bulb on and off with a pullchain. He then presses play on a cassette player, and the theme () begins to play. For a few seconds, he furiously turns the light on and off, before stopping and sitting in the dark for a couple of seconds. The screen then changes to a big graphic that reads "TRY NEW THINGS," and an announcer introduces a new sandwich.Lone Ranger William Tell Overture
In the second ad, we see another man of about 30 in a room that is completely bare except for a dresser, two paintings -- perhaps the man's parents -- and two objects on the floor: a trumpet and a doll, I think. The man silently picks up those two objects, looks up at the ceiling for a second, then climbs into the open bottom drawer of the dresser. We see that he appears to have a black-and-white picture of a man (perhaps his father) attached to his lapel. He curls up and then closes the drawer from the inside. We then get the "TRY NEW THINGS" graphic.
Maybe it's just me, but these ads seem a little arcane for a chain of sandwich shops. What the heck is going on? Is the first ad supposed to show that the guy in the basement has such a pathetic life that he turns a light bulb on and off for fun? Or is turning the light on and off to the Lone Ranger theme supposed to be his idea of "trying new things?" And I have absolutely no handle on the second ad at all. Perhaps the guy hasn't gotten over the deaths of his parents and is stuck in his childhood, but that wouldn't explain why the room is bare or, for that matter, how sandwiches come into play.
04:34, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
I think the point is to catch your attention and make you aware of the brand and remember it, which worked for you. As for a simple explanation of the contents of the ads, I think the point that yes, the man has such a pathetic life that going to eat at a different restaurant would be a good and welcome change. 04:52, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
[] edit A quick question in involving 'petifores' and how no one knows it's actually spelled 'petit fours'.
Why are people too stupid to know that?
05:10, 15 March 2006 (UTC)
(Mirv)
Isn't it "petits fours"? I know the problem. It's not a question of stupidity, just ignorance. If you've never learnt French, and/or never come across that expression before, you could hardly be blamed for not knowing that it was two words, not one, and how they were spelled. I was sent an email recently asking whether someone was "a bonnified de facto partner". It took me a little while to realise they meant "bona fide". See also . 06:07, 15 March 2006 (UTC) mondegreens JackofOz
Languages constantly borrow from other languages and mispronounce and misspell the words. English pronunciation of French words can be quite amusing ('deja vous' means 'already you', for example - and, yes, I know there should have been two accentmarks there, I'm just being lazy). I bet English is full of misspelled words. Also, many people can't even spell their own language, so, yes, stupidity (*) does come in here too. And of course the spelling of words changes within a language too. Just look at old English texts. I wonder if that is caused by one 'stupidity' piled on another over time. 10:04, 15 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
I assume by (*) you mean the stupidity of the educational authorities of our so-called greatest countries in the world, for allowing such an outcome to ever develop, or ever get anywhere near developing. (Don't get me started.) 13:27, 15 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
Are you "too stupid" to know that "question" is actually spelled "qu stionem"? Borrowed words and idioms don't need to keep their spelling, you know. -- 14:43, 15 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
is borrowed from Latin? Of course it comes from Latin indirectly, but that's not the same as borrowing. 15:50, 15 March 2006 (UTC)Question Keenan Pepper
It comes from Latin via French, yes. That just means both the French and English were both too stupid to get it right. And by induction, anyone not speaking Proto-Indo-European is a moron. Words change. Language changes. It's been going on forever, and drawing a line in the sand at some point in history and saying whoever crosses it is "stupid", is just patently ridiculous. -- 17:30, 15 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
[] edit google images
how do add images to google images?
You don't. The Google webcrawlers should pick up the image and categorise it based on the image filename, the link text pointing to the image, and text adjacent to the image. -- 07:06, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Canley
so lets say you upload the files to freewebs or whatever and google will eventuallly find it?-- 21:13, 15 March 2006 (UTC) 154.20.89.16
If there is a link pointing to it, Google will eventually find it, so long as the link pointing to it has a link pointing to it as well (and so forth, all the way up the chain). But it can take a few weeks before it finds it. -- 23:42, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
[] edit Sharon
How is the health condition of Israel's Prime Minister Sharon at this time?
has more details here on Wikipedia. (3 hrs old as of this timestamp, according to Google News) says that his hospital are saying that contrary to some reports there hasn't been any improvement, and he remains serious but stable. -- 08:13, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Illnesses of Ariel Sharon This article from the Jerusalem Post Bth
[] edit Wood working television show
There used to be a television show on about woodworking with vintage /antique tools. The host was a red headed man. I need to know his name, the name of the show, and is there a place to get a copy of his shows.
Thanks, Ron Brumley
And we need to know the country you're talking a out first, and is there a way to get people to realise the importance of this bit of info before they ask so we don't have to ask them about that every time. :) 10:06, 15 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Assume U.S. Do you mean the Woodwright's Shop by " longtime master housewright at Colonial Williamsburg, Roy Underhill"? 18:46, 15 March 2006 (UTC) [25] Rmhermen
In the time it took me to save my edit, I found which says Woodwright's Shop is the one I was thinking of. - 21:54, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Galoot Taxman
Talk
WP:RD sez"Be specific - explain your question in detail if necessary, addressing exactly what you'd like answered. For information that changes from country to country (or from state to state), such as legal, fiscal or institutional matters, please specify the jurisdiction you're interested in."
One should add "such as TV programs also". -- 21:50, 16 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
There is a show that meets that definition, but I don't recall the name and I don't see it in the list in that article, so it may not be a PBS production, but one that my local station picks up. For all I know it would be the one Rmhermen mentioned. The people on would be highly likely to be able to give you the name if you are asking about the US. - 21:52, 16 March 2006 (UTC) PBS Talk:The New Yankee Workshop Taxman
[] edit Elder Scrolls: Oblivion (continued from March 8th)
Quake 4 is not meant to work either but it does, although its QUITE GREEN.
[] edit how do you do the techniques in hp photo commercial
what software do i need to create the special effects in the hp tv ad with people moving in and out of album frames? if possible, can anyone tell me how this is done in detail?
here are the hp link to the video and then a spoof done by someone who apparently knows how to do the trick.
http://www.jokaroo.com/extremevideos/hpphoto.html
It's done using clever use of 3D . I'll try and very quickly explain it: you film yourself holding an empty frame over your face and pulling a silly face. Using compositing software, you copy the image of your face out and composite it over the frame. As the frame moves around, you alter the perspective and size of the photo in 3D to correspond with the frame. There's a tutorial of how to do it in , but I reckon you could also do this in , , or any other tools with 3D compositing features. -- 11:22, 16 March 2006 (UTC) compositing here Sony Vegas Adobe After Effects Apple Shake Canley
[] edit migration
what are the advantages and disadvantages of migraton?
The advantages are that if you migrate somewhere, you can avoid doing your own homework. If you stay in the same place, then you are sedentary, and you have to do your own homework. You, my friend, are thus sedentary. But see for a start. 15:23, 15 March 2006 (UTC) migration Proto ||
to . That response almost makes up for your sig. 13:08, 16 March 2006 (UTC) high-five Proto The bellman
[] edit Why the Western Front?
Can anybody explain why Britain and France called their battlefront against the Germans in WW1 The Western Front and not the Eastern Front? I appreciate that they had an ally, Russia, who fought on the German's Eastern Front (was that therefore the Russians Western Front?) but there was no British or French forces on that front. A British expression for death in the war was "going West" (homewards?) so they knew they were going East to fight. Hardly an earth-shattering puzzle but it has bothered me for ages, and despite extensive searching have not found anything.
I think the point is that the had two fronts, and the western front was the western of these. 'Eastern' and 'western' were used to distinguish the fronts from one another. 16:14, 15 March 2006 (UTC)war Mark your words
Exactly. "Eastern Front"/"Further Western Front" and "Further Eastern Front"/"Western Front" don't have quite the same ring. -- 16:31, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
It was called the in both wars & . It would also seem that the Germans called it the western front as well. See the book . 21:39, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Western Front Western Front (World War I) Western Front (World War II) Im Westen nichts Neues CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
That and Germany was probably the reference point -- it is their "West" and "East" that are being used here. -- 23:44, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
There doesn't need to have been any reference point except the fronts themselves. As said above, one was west of the other. --Anon, 02:51 UTC, March 16.
Of course, since the Earth is a sphere, if you went far enough East from the "Eastern Front" you would get to the "Western Front" and vice-versa. However, obviously you would go by the shortest route. It would have been a bit trickier if the fronts were on opposite sides of the world. 04:21, 16 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit what is a risk on using a NOW account
(no additional text)
[] edit Finger chewing
I am new yet things slowly seem to come to light as though Im riding a bike. yet I cant seem to get the swing of finger chewing nails and the proceedure and the movemint of "eating food" Please help I am desperate. and what is this ritual done for other than the obviouse
I can't understand the question. Will you please clarify it by using actual sentences ? A question mark should follow the question. This is a question mark -> ? 04:13, 16 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
You might like to read up on , and . Good luck. -- 19:41, 15 March 2006 (UTC) nail biting pacifier Shantavira
[] edit best menufacturers in CD-R USA
May be this is overuse of but can someone tell which are good CD-R to buy in US? Good means: cheap, lasting long (don't scratch easily and whatever else that makes it good), able to be written without going bad. Thanks. Wikipedia:Reference desk AshishG talk 02:13, , (). February 17 2009 UTC
I'm under the impression that the quality is very similar between different manufacturers with that product. I would suggest purchasing the cheapest ones. - 20:45, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
Hey, I'd recommend a brand name, such as Sony, Memorex, or Maxell. Even name brands can be found really cheap, especially buying them in a spindle. I find with no name brands one is more likely to end up with more coasters (people should recycle used CD-R's, just saying!), also some CD players, moreso older ones, will have trouble reading them (however it varies). The name brands are worth the extra few cents versus no name for quality alone. I think name brands are more likely to go on sale too (depends I suppose), so they may even be less expensive, also depends on where one shops. Chances may be some no name brands are made by the same company that make name brands, but that gets a little more tricky. I still get name brands nowadays, and as I said, deals are out there. Hope that helps. 04:47, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Willzyx
Personally, I think RW discs may last longer because these discs are inorganic. -- 06:55, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Toytoy
Cheap CD-Rs are not as reflective as pressed discs, which has two results: A, the laser has to work harder to read them and B, scratches and marks will have a greater effect. Ritek are the best (they are about 80% as good as a storebought CD), and Ridata and Sony are good too.
[] edit US Air Force Flag Insignias
hi there, my daughter is doing a project on the history of the US Air Force Flag; we are unable to answer a question and were wondering if you could help us. We need to know the meaning/significance of the insignas on US Air Force Flag. If you could help us, we would greatly appreciate it; if not, could you maybe point us in the right direction? thanks in advance for any help that you can give us
susan mcglone
(email removed. please read the top of the page) -- 20:06, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
There is a decent description of the flag and the symbols . -- 22:09, 15 March 2006 (UTC) here LarryMac
Alternatively, you could try posting the request to someone who is a member of the "Flags of the world" mailing list, since there are many vexillologists there who may be able to help. Contact details are . ... 06:00, 16 March 2006 (UTC) here Grutness
wha?
[] edit Trying to locate a faculty member
A friend of mine asked me to help locate Father Gene Grolmous. Father Grolmous was associated with St. Louis University's National Conference held in 1982, dealing with "Lessons to be Learned from the Hyatt Hotel Disastor in Kansas City". It is believed that Father Grolmous was Assistant Professor of Speech. He did have some poetry published. Prior to joining the faculty there, he was at Rockhurst College.
The friend who would like to locate him is named Chuck Hayes. Father Grolmus was often a visitor in his home. Chuck was also involved in the conference, having been a survivor of the Hyatt disaster.
Any information would be greatly appreciated.
Thank you.
(email removed. please read the top of the page) -- 20:51, 15 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
[] edit Takeover of Wikipedia
Can it happen that disgruntled users, developers, or writers decide to takeover Wikipedia (or Wikimedia itself), removing all the administrator, bureaucrat, and developer rights from everybody except themselves, and blocking all the pages except talk pages?Britannica
In theory, for 5 minutes, someone could begin such a "reign of terror". Until somebody comes along with database access and deletes the offending account. In practice, with all of the backups, etc, scattered around, it's very unlikely that WP would be permanently locked out by pranksters. 21:32, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Lomn
Talk
And how great is the possibility of a physical attack on Wikipedia's servers? And what if the people who take over the ones with database access? I know it sounds paranoid, but hey, we live in an age of terrorism.are
I would think they have better uses of their time, like cash depots. -- 21:48, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Haha. I ask questions, I expect answers, not sarcastic jootsing comments. I'm talking about users posing as Wikipedia service personnel. Or perhaps retired al-qaeda suicide admins. Not penniless teenagers.Britannica
If one of the developers decided to bugger things up, it would create some temporary damage, but could really do nothing more in the end than 1. forcing a re-install of MediaWiki from whatever the last build was, and 2. forcing a reset to the last database dump available. Nothing long term would really be possible; it would be a one-time affair. -- 23:38, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
Worst case scenario: Florida is wiped out by nuclear weapons. Jimmy along with the rest of the staff has been killed by evil squirrels, all of the developers get avian flu, and most of the American Contributers go mad from drinking to much snapple. There would still be complete wikipedia dumps available, and any one who wants can set up a fork with a DSL connection and a copy of MediaWiki in ten minutes. It would take alot to bring down Wikipedia. 01:27, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Oskar
Isn't this happy guy's polite questioning style somewhat familiar? -- 02:25, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Use CheckUser if you're trying to prove that I'm one of your abhorrent vandals and you'll end up disproving yourselves. Big laugh from my side. Anyway, I got what I want, so why bother?
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned 84.154.85.140 talk contribs
This is interesting question! Is there is director's board like body on Wikipedia where members can talk to each other on phone (apart from talk pages) in case of emergency? AshishG talk 02:13, , (). February 17 2009 UTC
Well, usually when something's wrong, people go rant about it on . () 12:49, 16 March 2006 (UTC) our IRC channels BTW, AshishG, shouldn't you use subst: in your signature? 'Cause it's now permanently displaying the current time instead of post time. Misza 13 T C
[] edit History
Who was it that claimed to have read all the books ever written and when was it said? Thank you, Brad Roberts
Whoever they were was no doubt incorrect or lying. At no point in known human history would it ever have been possible for any individual to read all books (defined loosely) ever written. Even if numerical amounts were not a problem (i.e., not too many books), the problem of languages would probably have been, and geographical distances would definitely have been. -- 23:41, 15 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
not to mention the problem of . for every work that once existed but is now known only by its title (if that), there are probably many more that have vanished without trace. 01:34, 16 March 2006 (UTC) lost works Charles P._
wha?
has that poem (Flesh is sad, alas, & I read every book ...) -- 21:43, 16 March 2006 (UTC) St phane Mallarm "La chair est triste, h las! et jai lu tous les livres. Fuir! l -bas fuir! Je sens que des oiseaux sont ivres. D' tre parmi l' cume inconnue et les cieux!" DLL
[] edit ATI vs Nvidia
Can someone who knows a lot about graphics cards please tell me which is the best possible graphics card out in the market. I have heard that the ATI x1900 series is the best one but I am not sure. Also, which company builds better graphics cards, ATI or Nvidia?
Hey, I am sure people will be divided as to which is better. Also as soon as one betters the other, the other probably responds quickly (word of the day, !). From a website I go to, it states "Before today, the X1900 was clearly the king of the hill in all things graphics." is a comparison chart from that website, comparing the two (same page I got the quote from). It is dated from March 9th. So it would appear Nvidia has responded! Hope that helps. 02:31, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Oligopoly Here Willzyx
I should have added a wikilink: , last paragraph of that section. So it appears it took a couple months for Nvidia to respond to ATI. 02:41, 16 March 2006 (UTC) ATI_Technologies#Market_trends Willzyx
As far as notebooks go I believe the general consesus is that Nvidia is in the lead. - 03:54, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Ridge Racer
In any case, both of them make good graphics chipsets, and it varies from week to week who currently has the best one at a given price point. But you're unlikely to go wrong with either. -- 03:57, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
-- 21:30, 16 March 2006 (UTC) ATI vs Nvidia Smackdown! LarryMac
[] edit Inside White Tower of Tower of London
Does anybody know about what years the arms and armour room inside the white tower of London was added or created?
As a working armoury or as a museum? Either way the exact dates seem difficult to pin down, but our article on has a fair bit of information about the evolution of the collection. -- 08:37, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Royal Armouries Bth
[] edit March 16
[] edit FM frequency band coverage
I would like to know is there any restrict law on the FM Band to keep at 87.5 to 108 MHz ? Or Can I build a FM band radio to receive 86 to 109 MHz instead?
Thanks and Best Regards,
William Tai
In what country? --Anon, 01:11 UTC, March 16, 2006.
According to and , FM isn't so much a band as it is a method to transmit radio (if I understand the articles correctly). clearly states that you can send out FM signals at any frequency, so yes, it is possible to build a FM reciver at 108 MHz, although since no one is transmitting, I don't really know what the point would be :D 01:20, 16 March 2006 (UTC) FM broadcast band FM FM broadcast band Oskar
If you're in the United States, the answer is yes, the government does limit what is popularly called FM radio broadcasts to the part of the broadcast spectrum ranging from 88 to 108 MHz. The frequencies below that (76-88 MHz) are for television channels 5 and 6, although presumably that space will be freed up after analog TV goes off the air. The range from 108 to 117.975 is for aeronautical radionavigation. So there really would be no point in building a radio that went down to 86 MHz or up to 109 MHz.
shows you what type of broadcasting is allocated to each part of the spectrum. This page
None of the above answers is answering the question that was asked. The frequency allocations apply to broadcasting. The original poster asked if it was legal (not possible) to build a receiver (not transmitter) that would receive FM signals at 86 to 109 MHz. And again, legal questions can't be answered without knowing the country. (And even then, if this is more than a casual curiosity, you should a lawyer rather than some random people here.) --Anonymous, 02:48 UTC, March 16.
My grandmother used to have a portable TV set with an analog tuner. Between channels 6 and 7, you could pick up FM radio broadcasts. -- 02:30, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
I would be very surprised if it was illegal to build a radio , as opposed to transmitter, in any reasonably free jurisdiction. However you would have to be careful that you built it properly, as a badly-built receiver can emit radio signals and if these cause interference with another user you may get into trouble. Obviously if you live in a country which doesn't like it's citizens receiving outside radio broadcasts you may get into trouble. Also if you are using the receiver to eavesdrop, or intend to use it for criminal activity you will get into trouble too. 22:01, 16 March 2006 (UTC)
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned 68.7.39.224 talk contribs
Maybe you rubbed it up the wrong way. 01:32, 16 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum
I don't have an answer to this question, but can I just say, I'm dying to hear what the response is! 01:36, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Oskar
Maybe it just more slanted as it's returning to its flaccid state. 02:51, 16 March 2006 (UTC)seems Keenan Pepper
I noticed this also and it questioned me. If you dont mind me asking, why is that if you do not participate in sex (or masturbation) often enough your penis feels so sensitive after ejaculation? 03:12, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Tutmosis
define "often enough" :) ... 06:03, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
[] edit Publicity websites
I recently was at a publicity website, by that I mean I think they produced commercials for television. It seems I didn't bookmark it, and I can't find it again. It had North American and European ads on it, that anyone could view. Some included one for Coke Zero, one for Coca Cola and the Fifa World Cup in Germany, and a CBS holiday promo done in claymation. I hate to be a burden here, but I was wondering if anyone knew of any such sites, possibly that one too! Googling did not seem to help either unfortunately. TYVM in advance! 02:15, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Willzyx
[] edit Can male homosexuals still fart?
It seems that due to the mechanics alone, that the routine rooting of ones anus by an plunger type device such as a engorged penis, would loosen ones anus,and it's surrounding muscle and tissue mass thus preventing it from being ever able to fart again. Would this be possible justification to go straight? Or does one of that ilk have a way to alleviate what must be a telltale inability to pass gas loudly.
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned 70.125.20.22 talk contribs
I doubt this is a serious question, but I'll answer it seriously. Receptive homosexual sex does not loosen the anal sphincter; if anything the sphincter muscles are strengthened by the exercise. Gay men can fart just as well as, if not better than, straight men. 02:41, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
And the same goes for women who participate in receptive anal intercourse. 02:43, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
[] edit MALE ORGASM
How exactly do men train themselves to have multiple orgasms?Are there any ways to improve male orgasm?
Have fewer of them? ;)
Seriously, some people claim that is a pathway to all manner of sexual delights. -- 03:54, 16 March 2006 (UTC) tantra Robert Merkel
Lots of masturbation or sex my friend. 2 times a day should do it and your on your way. Honestly, Im not kidding, works for me. 03:55, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Tutmosis
Is it just coincidence that last three questions are on topic?this AshishG talk 02:13, , (). February 17 2009 UTC
I've heard work wonders. 05:24, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Kegel exercises android 79
[] edit brown baby
is it true that if a white women gets pregnant from anal sex, she will have a brown baby?
No, the stork chooses a colour for the baby randomly. (Since anal sex can't lead to pregnancy, it must be the stork, mustn't it?) -- 08:27, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
You can't get pregnant through your ass, so this question is moot. () 14:32, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Luigi30
If a white woman has a brown baby, she's had vaginal sex with a black man; no ifs, ands, or . :-) 16:29, 16 March 2006 (UTC)butts StuRat
that depends on your definitions of "brown people" and "black people". Some common definitions of those terms would find your description impossible. 16:56, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
[] edit Images
Finding an answer can be very daunting in Wikipedia.... specifically, and simply... how do I tag my image? I created it. I downloaded it for general use and I am lost looking through the lists of 'How to's' and I can't find the right link. This is the tiger beetle Cicindela t. sigmoidea - Terry Young
Head over to your page (nice pic, btw) and click on the edit this page link as you would any other. Then replace the current "no source info" boilerplate with whichever of the messages is appropriate to your case. So, for instance if you want to release it under the GDFL you'd add {{GDFL-self}}. HTH. -- 08:27, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Image:Ctsigmoidea.jpg here Bth
[] edit volleyball
"who is the volleyball player to have won the most olympic medals(gold, silver or bronze -indoor, beach or both) in modern Olympic games?"
I don't think volleyball was played in Ancient Greece, they preferred more manly games, like synchronized swimming. 16:22, 16 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Olympic games. :PModern
They preferred those manly games like nude wrestling. | 03:41, 17 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit Contact L. Paul Bremer
I have tried every way I know to find out how to contact Ambassador Bremer to ask for an autograph and have been unsuccessful. Can you help? Thanks----
No. May I ask which approach you have persued though? 16:23, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Celcius
Easy. Go to on Saturday, on the 23rd or on the 27th and go to Bremer's book-signing. See . -- 00:09, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Manchester, Vermont Oklahoma City Grand Rapids, Michigan L. Paul Bremer Mwalcoff
[] edit School Register Sketch
Can anyone point me to a free, online script or sound recording of 's School Register Sketch?-- 17:35, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Rowan Atkinson Keycard () talk
It's easily available as part of any recording of The Secret Policeman's Ball, though I think you'll have to buy a copy and depending on your intended use I think you'll hit copyright problems.
[] edit Roman Catholicism, libertarianism and racism
Can a libertarian be considered a good Catholic?
Is there a conflict between the message of love of Catholicism and the pure hate which is racism? Can a good Catholic be a racist?
Thank you,
Libertarianism rejects religion entirely and utterly, so no.
Messages of love and messages of hate naturall conflict with each other, that's obvious.
A good catholic can be racist if the catholic still thinks he is doing good, however God will not be happy about it, so said catholic will likely go to hell. 18:16, 16 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Oh and just to complete the triangle: libertarianism is completely disjointed from racism. 18:43, 16 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
That is not a Catholic interpretation of how to get to Hell and where exactly does all " rejects religion entirely and utterly,"? Doesn't sound much like the U.S. version? 21:23, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Libertarianism Rmhermen
Because it's based on objectivism, and anything involved with religion is subjective. 22:03, 16 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
It is more complex than that. See the details in the article. 23:51, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
But that's answering the opposite question: . As for the question about being a good Catholic, I'd say that you can be a good Catholic no matter what your political beliefs are. E.g. the Catholic church considers abortion a sin. In my view that doesn't mean you vote against having legal abortion if you're Catholic. It doesn't constitute a sin in itself, there are plenty of things that are legal but considered sinful. As for racism.. If someone doesn't love their neighbor, and doesn't honestly repent for it (since it's clearly a sin), then they're not acting like a good Catholic. Or Christian or Jew or Zoroastrian or plain-old fellow human-being. -- 00:49, 17 March 2006 (UTC)Can a Catholic be considered a good libertarian?must BluePlatypus
Yes, but remember that if you have had an abortion, allowed a spouse to have an abortion, performed an abortion, or are known to support abortions at least, I those are the criteria the Church will excommunicate you. 02:09, 17 March 2006 (UTC)think OneofThem
See , for instance: . So excommunication only applies to the doctor and the patient. It's not absolute either, for instace if the patient was unaware of the church teachings on the subject, or acted in a genuine good faith that an abortion was the moral thing to do. In the end, it's a judgement call from the local priest or bishop. -- 16:45, 17 March 2006 (UTC) this only those incur the excommunication who themselves actually and efficaciously procure the abortion BluePlatypus
Libertarianism does not "reject religion" at all. In fact, I can't think of a single religion that's incompatible with libertarianism. You just have to believe in other people's right not to follow your beliefs. 13:05, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Sorry, badly worded on my part - what I meant to say was something along the lines of Libertarianism being an entirely secular ideology. Not that religion would be banned under it, but rather that religion would have no political power in it. Subject to the stuff in the article that is (as Rmhermen pointed out) 16:53, 17 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Libertarianism I believe is not in accordance with catholicism. demands one submits to higher government powers and pay taxes. However, although it used to be supported, racism is not in accordance with catholicism, per all humans being equal in their natural state. -zappa 01:24, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Romans 13:1-7
There are libertarians of all manner of religions, including Catholicism. Libertarianism is a political position which holds that the government should only protect people's rights; it shouldn't interfere in people's private lives or try to control the economy. Libertarians believe that people should be allowed to practice whatever religion they choose, as long as they don't hurt others in so doing. (If your religion teaches you to steal, to attack your neighbors, or to commit human sacrifice, that's not OK to a libertarian.)
Most libertarians are opposed to the existence of taxes, although they would prefer taxes to be much lower than they are today! Most libertarians are "minarchists" (minimal government) rather than "anarchists" (no government).not
There is no consensus among libertarians on abortion. Some believe that a fetus is a human being and therefore has rights which should be protected. Others believe that a fetus is part of the mother and that she should not be forced to carry it to term against her will. The abortion issue (in the U.S.) is not usually as divisive or doctrinaire among libertarians as it is in mainstream politics.
However, there are other issues on which libertarian and Catholic thought might come into conflict. For instance, there are a number of other topics on which the Catholic Church advocates restrictive laws, such as on sexual matters -- homosexuality, pornography, prostitution, contraception, and so forth. Libertarians generally consider sexual matters to be private and outside of the ambit of government. -- 23:05, 19 March 2006 (UTC) FOo
[] edit Marketing:Primary differences between Products & Services
Hi, Could you please answer my question:
"What are the primary differences between products & services?How does marketing highlight these differences?"
Thank you....
See and 18:42, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Product (business) Service  -- Run! 
Us doing your homework for you would be a service, while the finished homework would be a product. 00:38, 17 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit aim-120c
If possible, could you please define what the acronym AIM as in AIM-9x, AIM-120c, or AIM-132 missiles mean.
Thank you,
(removed email to prevent spam)
It stands for Air Intercept Missle. | 19:36, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
Actually, it does not. The US military uses a system of designations at each letter, which can be found on page 20. AIM (such as an is an air-launched air/space interception guided missile. Contrast with AGM, an air-launched ground attack guided missile such as the , or LGM for silo-launched ground attack guided missile like the . 19:43, 16 March 2006 (UTC) here AIM-9 Sidewinder AGM-65 Maverick LGM-30 Minuteman Lomn
Talk
According to your source on page 20 of 28, AIM means A - air, I - aerial/space intercept, M - missile. So Air Intercept Missile, as the first respondant said. 21:19, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
This is somewhat a semantic question (and the Language desk could answer it better) but "AIM" is a different case than say, "RADAR", where the letters are taken specifically from "RAdio Detection And Ranging". In this case, it's a code system that tries to correspond to the actual meaning, but the same code produces an example like that of the ICBM listed: "LGM" is not a standard of any sort. "AIM" as an acronym by fortunate circumstance, but it's not designed as one. 21:33, 16 March 2006 (UTC) acronym appears Lomn
Talk
[] edit where to find specific congress alterations?
i am doing some research for school about the alteration of congress biographies. how can i find out what exactly was altered by the hill staffers (specifics) i tried looking at the histories and just got lost. any suggestions? thanks
Wikipedia has an article about this at . You can find one of the edits . -- 22:56, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Congressional Staffer Edits here Cadaeib
[] edit I have a three pence coin.
I have some old coins and I have a British three pence coin, date 1942, with King George VI on the obverse. It looks like this . What is the value of this coin? The article on three pence coins did not say. -- 21:04, 16 March 2006 (UTC) one Blue387
You'll have to check on the specifics of before , but I think it took 240 to equal one . 22:00, 16 March 2006 (UTC) British currency decimalisation pence pound Lomn
Talk
It's still worth three pence in the U.K., but to a collector in the U.S. it may be worth about $1 as a curiosity. 23:40, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
It's certainly not worth three pence! The currency decimalised in 1971; whilst the stayed at the same value, it went from a pound composed of 240 pence to one composed of 100 "new pence". After a while, once the chance of direct confusion went away, the "new" got dropped sometime in the 1980s (you still sometimes see "NEW PENCE" or "NEW PENNY" on older circulating 1p/2p coins).pound
As such, were it still legal tender, it'd have a face value of slightly over 1p. It legal tender, though, so isn't even worth that - I doubt a bank would be willing to take it. It's only got curiosity value, and probably doesn't have much value to a collector - there'll be no shortage of currency like this kicking around. | | 00:01, 17 March 2006 (UTC)isn't Shimgray talk
Unfortunately half the population kept a set of old coins when Britain went decimal because "they'll be worth something one day". 00:25, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
They are of value - they have just been used here as a teaching tool to illustrate the history of British money, a rather dry subject. Oh, you meant monetary value... 14:14, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
I was confused by the entry on , which says that that type of coin minted before decimalisation is still worth face value. As for my comment on collector value, I'm just going by prices I've seen at coin stores in the U.S. 21:08, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Maundy money Brian G. Crawford
For those of you who have ever seen the Austin Powers movies you'll be aware of Cockney Rhyming Slang. The old three penny piece was commonly refered to as a "thrupenny bit" which rhymes quite nicely with a slang term for part of a woman's anatomy - I'll leave you to guess which parts.
What are the differences between robots,androids and cyborgs?
Robots: completely mechanical/electronical
Cyborgs and Androids: Have biological components. Ex: Human with a robotic arm. 23:43, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Tutmosis
Not exactly. From the articles:
"is a mechanical device that can perform preprogrammed physical tasks. A robot may act under the direct control of a human...or autonomously", Robots
"a portmanteau of cybernetic organism, is used to designate an organism which is a mixture of organic and mechanical (synthetic) parts." cyborg
"is an artificially created robot, an automaton, that resembles a human being usually both in appearance and behavior.". 23:48, 16 March 2006 (UTC) android Rmhermen
A cyborg is half-man, half-machine. An android is an independant, intelligent machine that is close to people in behaviour. A robot is any machine that is capable of movement and has some degree of autonomousness.
The first definition is accurate with the exception of androids. Androids have no biological components whatsoever. The dividing line between androids and robots is however difficult to define. I would say that androids (having the Greek prefix meaning "man") are those robots that are most humanlike. In other words, an android is a subset of the wider set of robots.andro
[] edit Rossby wave
I was wondering why the is the slowest ocean current. Why is it so slow, I mean, it doesn't make sense that different waves have different speeds when they're all right by each other. Your answer would be greatly appreciated! -----Karlee Rossby wave
Im nom expert, but article gives clues: Ocean current
: Driven by wind, so wind speed changes and so does the speed of the current.Surface current
: driven by density and temperature. Again this are things that change.Deep ocean
23:48, 16 March 2006 (UTC) Tutmosis
[] edit suicide
what is the most popular method of suicide? and why? 02:04, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Im in ur house
I'm glad you didn't do it. - 02:21, 17 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
Natural causes. | 03:43, 17 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
Suicide by homework. () 03:54, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Luigi30 m
When a politician says and does too many stupid things ... the political suicide is remarkable. Popular also, depending on which side you stand. -- 06:24, 17 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
You may wish to look at . Epidemiology and methodology of suicide
Smoking seems to be a common one. ... 08:16, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
I agree with you. -- 07:30, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Nkcs
[] edit progressives and progress?
Why is it that liberals who ironically adopt the name "progressives" would have us all go back to the stone age and drive around in tiny primative compact cars? Isn't it oddly against progress to abandon yers of reasearch leading to effective, modern machines like Sport Utility Vehihcles, and to abandon them why? because trees and wildlife are people too? because those evil oil barons are trying to run a business? oh no, gasp, must revert to primitive car technology because liberals are afraid of progress-- 02:26, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Demos ocracy
Well, usually they're talking about social progress, as opposed to technological. The word "conservative" also has issues, since it's often unclear what they're "conserving." Certainly not gas, in this context. 02:30, 17 March 2006 (UTC) moink
Of course, technological progress can also been seen in terms of less polluting technologies, public transport initiatives and a wide variety of scientific research generally supported by liberals. I could question whether SUVs are typically "effective". And having put years of research into something is not in itself a reason to keep it - years of research have gone into , but I wouldn't want to promote that theory. 02:54, 17 March 2006 (UTC) eugenics Warofdreams talk
Progress? Big, gas-guzzling behemoths are so 1950s. The gas-powered car dates to, what, the 1880s? Hydrogen-fueled cars, maglev trains, intelligent transportation systems -- now that's progressive. -- 02:56, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
No point in answering this, as the user who asked it has been blocked indefinitely as a troll account. I'd say the above is just another trolling attempt. -- 03:21, 17 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
POV and trolling are very interesting in sociology study. Now people can understand why US and Kyoto do not mix easily. The desire for consummation and progress is strong and every argument is taken in that direction only. -- 06:23, 17 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
Well, I think it's sad this user has been blocked, because he could have contributed a lot to . 13:30, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Transportation in the stone age David Sneek
I hope they weren't blocked for this question, which, while showing strong POV, isn't what I would call "trolling", which is just trying to pick a fight. 14:24, 17 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I don't think anyone gets blocked for a single edit, no matter how bad. I'd suggest looking at the user's edit history. -- 16:06, 17 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
I checked the user's contribs, a troll. 00:17, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
[] edit sorry to bother: Streak color of dolomite ?
(I fixed your title to actually be of some use in finding the question. 14:26, 17 March 2006 (UTC)) StuRat
what is the of a ? streak color diatomite
Use , my child. The streak colour of diatomite is white. --antiestablishmentarianist common sense
Are we talking or ?-- 18:09, 17 March 2006 (UTC) dolomite diatomite Commander Keane
It doesn't matter, they're both white. 18:44, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
[] edit Commonwealth Games 1974 Number of Days
Hi I'd like to know how may days the Commonwealth Games 1974 were on for. Thanks, Hanna
It was held from 24 January to 2 February 1974. More info can be found . ... 08:22, 17 March 2006 (UTC) here Grutness
wha?
[] edit my question: Erosion of southern tip of Canada ?
(I fixed your title, as the original made no mention of your actual question, which is, after all, the purpose of a title, here.)
I recently heard on the radio that the southernmost point of Canada was washing away, and that the bridge remains. They also said that the sign for 'no swimming' washed up on a beach in Ohio. The sign will however probably be replaced, but nobody will probably swim right now anyways because Lake Erie is cold this time of year.--antiestablishmentarianist
Actually, that isn't a question. What sort of answer are you looking for? 11:09, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
I take it they are asking us to verify the truth of their statement. I'm not sure it's the southernmost point of all of Canada, but the southernmost point of Ontario () is in Lake Erie, so it's quite possible a sign could cross the lake and end up in Ohio. Also, shores naturally change over time, with some areas eroding and some areas growing. However, our article on that island doesn't mention any net erosion. 13:53, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Pelee Island StuRat
The southernmost point on the mainland is at - that point is a thin spit of land that changes often. The southernmost inhabited point is on and the southernmost point is on and had until recently been owned by an American family. It, however, is an undeveloped bird refuge and shouldn't have had a "no swimming" sign. 14:09, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Point Pelee National Park Pelee Island Middle Island (Canada) Rmhermen
Why wouldn't there be a "no swimming" sign on the shore of a bird sanctuary ? 14:18, 17 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Can't be entirely sure but it is an "undeveloped" island only reached by private boat. None of the ferries run to it. 15:37, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
Following off a comment above the current water temp is 1 C or 34 F Bit cool for swimming, indeed. 15:40, 17 March 2006 (UTC) [26] Rmhermen
I visited Point Pelee in September 2005. It's suspicious to me that it was reported that "the" no swimming sign was washed away, as there are no swimming signs at Point Pelee, and several of them also warn against even wading, since the currents are so swift at Pelee Point. There was also a diagram at the visitor's center showing how the shape of the sandbar had changed over the years--although it does change shape on a regular basis due to the action of the currents, it does not seem to be getting any smaller, at least judging by the diagram I saw. While individual grains of sand are frequently washed away by the current, I'm sure, sand is also deposited there by the currents, leading to no net change in the size of the point. But then, there's no bridge at Point Pelee, so the radio report may not have been talking about that at all. 15:47, 17 March 2006 (UTC)many Chuck
By chance a Canajun friend of mine forwarded me two articles today on this very subject. Read and . Short answer: yes, it's , and the bit about the No Swimming sign is confirmed, too. () 04:26, 18 March 2006 (UTC) this this Point Pelee Steve Summit talk
This was no question. I just wanted to see how people would react if someone didn't actually ask a question, but rather state a fact. Thank you for taking part in my experiment. It's amazing how so many people replyed to something that isn't even a question, when so many other real questions go unanswered or get a short answer. --antiestablishmentarianistSILENCE, MORTAL FOOLS!
We can't help it. We are compelled to provide information as best we can; it is an enforced penance for the hubris and condescention of our previous, even less worthy existences. We could use sympathy, not abuse, so please, chill out, immortal buffoon. () 15:10, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
[] edit big fish little fish
Does anyone know what the phrase "big fish, little fish, cardboard box" means? I'm sure it's a bit rude, but how? Thanks very much, o Reference Desk. -- 11:48, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Dangherous
I have heard it as an idiot's guide to dancing in clubs -- you make the shapes described in front of you with your arms. "Big fish" is arms crossed over at approx. the elbows with the hands pointing vertically, "little fish" is the same but just hands crossed at the wrists and then "cardboard box" is two movements -- arms parallel at the sides and then top and bottom of a square. Repeat until bored/drunk enough to start following your "natural sense of rhythm". -- 12:30, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
I'm a big fan of 'Make a box, put it on the shelf'. I'll be ripping the dancefloor up with that bad boy tonight. 14:13, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Proto ||
type
[] edit Why is North "up"?
Why do maps of the world show North as being "up" and South as being "down"? Who decided that maps should be shown in this way and not the other way around or even on their side?
The Ancient Greeks decided. Judging by (which has plenty more information for you if you want it), north-at-the-top in fact relates to the re-adoption of the ancient Greek standard following the translation of Ptolemy's (IIRC prior to that, maps in Western Europe tended to have Jerusalem in the East at the top.) You may like by . -- 15:12, 17 March 2006 (UTC) this webpage Geography this artwork Ross Sinclair Bth
The Australians have maps with the south upwards. Mostly as a novelty item though. -- 16:04, 17 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
NZers too - the maps from The are an example of that. ... 05:55, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Wizard of New Zealand Grutness
wha?
I don't see how it much matters which direction is up, as long as everyone does it the same way. Otherwise, you would always have to find the key to figure out which way to hold up (whichever direction you are used to being up), and then you couldn't always read the possibly upside-down text. 16:37, 17 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I think it would do people good to look at an "upside-down" or "sideways" map once in a while. I can't stand it when people say things like "Georgia is above Florida". No, Georgia is north of Florida. They are perpendicular directions. 18:33, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Slightly off-topic but road atlases of Britain used to start with Map1 of the far north and finish with Map100 (whatever) of the south coast. But now they all start in the south and work upwards. 00:00, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
You actually do see maps or diagrams with directions other than north at the top sometimes. Mostly these are diagrams of a building, group of buildings, the route of a single transit line, or some other small area like that. Often they are drawn so that the direction people are facing when they look at the diagram (or the direction the transit vehicle will be moving) are at the top. A lot of people like this; others find it really annoying. It depends on how you process geographical information. (One solution is to always place them so that the person looking at the thing is facing north, but that's not always practical either.) Also, if a city has a rectilinear street grid that's not aligned to the compass points, like Manhattan or Toronto, then maps are very often oriented so that north is roughly at the top, but the grid streets are horizontal and vertical (and again, similarly for building plans that would otherwise have north at the top). And I have occasionally seen city maps with east or west at the top for no obvious reason. --Anonymous, 01:50 UTC, March 18, 2006.
"Up" could have been aligned with any direction (and not just the 4 cardinal points either), but North was chosen. It wasn't just a random arbitrary thing. I think North was considered the "primary" direction, and "up" the primary orientation, so it was natural they be aligned. To this day, only a North arrow is shown on maps, with all other directions being calculated by reference to North. But why North? Something to do with magnetism, perhaps? (although that would just give a North-South axis, not North specifically). And why "up"? The Greeks wrote starting from the top of the page, not from the bottom, which seems a sensible way of doing things (unless you want to obscure or smudge what you've just written with your hand/arm). To get to the top of the page from a central position, you have to look up. So "up" seems to have a sense of "beginning" or "origin" about it. This would also explain why 12 o'clock on a traditional clock is always shown at the North position. Unfortunately, it doesn't explain why piano keys are ordered in ascending pitch from left to right, rather than descending. I think there's more to this question than meets the eye. 02:05, 18 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
Sorry, Jack, I think you have cause and effect reversed. The other things you describe are the result of north being shown at the top of maps, not the cause. (Okay, except for magnetism, but a compass needle has two ends: it points south as well as north.) --Anon, 02:25 UTC, March 18.
The real reason North is up is because "your betters" live there and you should look up to them. (removes tongue from cheek). 02:10, 18 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Feh. The cold weather's got to your head there, methinks :). Anyway, it varies a bit from culture to culture. The medieval Chinese put east at the top of their maps, IIRC. ... 05:55, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
OK, the answer is that north is easiest to determine astronomically, for those in the northern hemisphere, by using the North Star. So, when looking up at the North Star (), it would be convenient to have a map which also had north in the up direction. 03:44, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Polaris StuRat
Since was recently our featured article, one may be interested in . 03:57, 19 March 2006 (UTC) The West Wing (TV series) the Wikipedia summary of a relevant episodic discussion Joe
[] edit Editing my page
I am an actress and i just added my own page on Wikipedia! My question is, how do I insert the "Filmography" section and "external links" to my website...etc?
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned Nuniestar talk contribs
I hope you're a actress under , otherwise your page is likely to be deleted fairly quickly (no offence meant; I'm sure you're a perfectly lovely person even if you turn out not to be notable by WP standards). But to answer the more general question, section headings are done with pairs of multiple equal signs. eg ==Section heading== produces a main heading, ===Minor heading=== a subheading. -- 17:47, 17 March 2006 (UTC)notable the criteria for the inclusion of biographies Bth
I'm not quite sure what you are asking, but here are the answers in any case:
1) If you want to know how to add sections to a Wikipedia article, pick the "+" sign next to "edit this page" to add a new section.
2) If you want to know how to add a link from Wikipedia to an external site, do it like this:
*Fancy Actress official web site: [http://www.fancyactress.com]
17:56, 17 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I don't have a plus-sign on my "edit this page" (monobook skin on safari). In any event, to create a new subject header, you do it in the following format:
==Header name==
-- 18:34, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
Didn't you already have to do that to create this section? 00:05, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
When you press the + button, or the link at the top of the Ref Desk that duplicates its function, you get an option to type in a heading in a separate little text box, so you wouldn't learn the wiki markup if that's your only exposure to setting up sections. -- 09:49, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
Oh, that's right. I always forget that, since I rarely use that feature. I usually use the edit link for the last section, then clear the name of that section from the edit summary. 01:22, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
[] edit Background music
I hope someone has the answer to my inquiry. The latest academy awards show paid tribute to bigraphical movies that had been made over the years.I would like to know the title of the background music that was played during that segment. Does anyone know the title name? Thanking you in advance 17:17, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Prhet
[] edit Warship Fuel Type
Can you please tell me what type of fuel was used by HMS Dreadnought (1906)when she entered service. Also, if possible, in which year she(and other British capital ships) were converted from coal to oil burning. 19:26, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Christopher Streatfeild-James 82.26.149.128
Coal, see . -- 19:58, 17 March 2006 (UTC) HMS Dreadnought (1906) 145.94.41.95
Our article does't mention any conversion to oil - but it was scrapped in 1923. 21:36, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
Oil was scrapped in 1923? 02:26, 18 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
The ship was scrapped then - it was decommissioned in 1919. 03:36, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
Damn. If oil had been scrapped in 1923, maybe we'd all be a whole lot better off now. 02:32, 19 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
That's a relatively short life for a warship. I suppose the rapidly changing technology of the time made it quickly obsolete. 02:31, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Dreadnought was obsolescent, certainly - she was the oldest "modern" battleship then in service in the world. But 1923 was also the year of the Washington Treaty, which meant an awful lot of old ships got scrapped, regardless of merit... | | 17:26, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Shimgray talk
Churchill, as First Lord of the Admiralty began converting the Fleet from coal to oil in 1911 so I suspect it would've been coal before then & converted sometime after 1911. 11:54, 20 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
[] edit Unknown instruments
My two year old brother has this instrument that I don't know is. It is wooden and circular with a wooden handle. On the side of the circle, there is a ball attached with a piece of string; also the smae opposite this side of the circle. It works by twsiting your wrist back and forth and the wooden balls hit this unusual piece of plastic. It then makes the noise. Does anybody know what instrument this is, or is it just made up? Thanks! | 19:39, 17 March 2006 (UTC) K ilo-Lima (talk)
Apparently it is known as a Den-Den Daiko, poss. Japanese or Tibetan in origin, as seen in . 20:27, 17 March 2006 (UTC) [27] The Karate Kid pictures KWH
Pardon, apparently it was in . 20:42, 17 March 2006 (UTC) The Karate Kid, Part II KWH
[] edit lyrics for this song.....
Hii......
I dont know if this is the right place to ask this question....but i am desperate...... i made this acoustic instrumental... and i am really stuck with the lyrics....!! i got no idea of what to write.... i was hoping that anyone could give me some tips or some website where they have some tips.... oh..and you can listen to the song if you want at .... Thanks a lot..!! 20:07, 17 March 2006 (UTC) my solo Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
Is the title of your song "Again" ? I liked it. What did you think about when you created it ? What would you like to tell, something cool about life, something a little sad, funny ? -- 21:39, 19 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
Yes, the title of the file is "Again"...But i really dont even know what to call the song yet.... I am thinking about calling it "Dawn" as one of the other users suggested it.... and i wanna tell something about our desires in life and the choices we make..... but i really dont have any idea on how to start writing the lyrics..... 05:55, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
them into little | thoughts is the | write pages | A good method | of guff, snip | 20:08, 20 March 2006 (UTC) | to rearrange confused | throw them in the air. | pieces and | . Basically,
MeltBanana Cut-up technique
[] edit What is really up? Solar system and galaxy...
Following on from the question 'why is north up', what is the relationship between the solar ecliptic and the galactic ecliptic (if those are the correct terms)? Is the disc of the solar system parallel to the disc of the galaxy? 22:53, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
No, they're not parallel, not even close. I can't easily find the answer to the question asked, but according to the article, the galactic north pole is at about declination 27 ; thus the galactic axis is at an angle of about 63 to the Earth's axis; As is well known, the Earth's axis is in turn at an angle of about 23 from the perpendicular to plane of the Earth's orbit (the ecliptic). So the ("solar") ecliptic plane and the galactic plane must be at least about 40 apart and maybe more than that. If you can find a sky chart that shows both the ecliptic and the Milky Way, just look at the angle formed where they cross. That's it. --Anonymous, 02:11 UTC, March 18, 2006. galactic coordinate system
If you look up at night in a rural area, you can see a strip of stars marking the galactic disc. And it's not above the equator ;) 10:03, 18 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
Thanks. :) 11:08, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
[] edit beers? in the US?
I know the legal age around here to alcohol is usually 21 but it's not illegal to drink before then? right? only to buy it, like during probibition?-- 23:02, 17 March 2006 (UTC)buy Beers
It's also illegal to drink alcohol if you're under 21 everywhere I've been in the U.S. I think there are exceptions for religious observances like Holy Eucharist and Passover. I've known a couple of people who have been arrested for possessing alcohol while under the age of 21. 23:08, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Brian G. Crawford
They also made religious exceptions during Prohibition. 00:03, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
In Michigan, you can get caught for "minor in possession" of alcohol even if it is found in a breath test. Internal possession. Around here, that mainly concerns those who go over to Windsor for Ontario lower drinking age. 03:34, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
It actually depends on the state. See . -- 03:44, 18 March 2006 (UTC) [28] 70.27.57.22
What are you saying depends on the state? but to the best of my knowledge, in the United States of which I've been a citizen all my life, you may not possess or buy alcohol until you are 21 years of age. It became the law in every state somewhere in the 80's. Before that there were a few states that still allowed 18 year olds to buy (and consume) alcohol. It was even part of the plot of an episode of where Alex went over the border to another state to get drunk with his friends. | 06:22, 18 March 2006 (UTC) IANAL Family Ties Dismas (talk)
The age doesn't depend on the state, but only 31 states specifically prohibit . See .consumption [29]
Interestingly enough, took place in , which was one of the last states to be forced to raise its drinking age. People might have driven Ohio to buy alcohol, but not Ohio. -- 15:22, 18 March 2006 (UTC)Family Ties Ohio tofrom 70.27.57.22
Wouldn't it be fun to be the last state with a drinking age of 18 ? Then not only would you have your own drunken teens to contend with, but you would also import them from other states. 02:26, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
You also still see "alcohol tourism" from dry counties. 01:25, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
As evidenced by the mass exodus of 18-20 year old college students in border states that party in Mexico. :-P On another note, in some states, it is considered legal for a minor to consume small amounts of alcohol under the supervision of a parent/guardian, while not in a public place. Too much, though, and it's considered contributing to the delinquency of a minor. Basically, it's okay to let your kid sip from a beer at home once in a while, but it's NOT okay to let him sip from a beer at a restaurant, or to let him chug the whole beer . 20:08, 22 March 2006 (UTC)anywhere Ehurtley
I believe in Alaska you can also drink under the supervision of your over-21 spouse. Those liberal Alaskans! 05:13, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Crypticfirefly
[] edit GNU/Linux picture
A while back on some Wikipedia page I saw a picture depicting the wildebeest and the penguin () as superheroes. Does anyone know that picture and where it's located? 23:10, 17 March 2006 (UTC) GNU Linux Tux Punkmorten
Was it this one from commons, perhaps? 23:29, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Jud e
Here's the same picture in colour. -- 23:39, 17 March 2006 (UTC)
The same picture, but in colour.
Thanks. 08:57, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Punkmorten
Typical Stallman propaganda. The linux penguin is a little faggy boy wonder to the mighty androgenous gnu.
[] edit I have a question! Silver album ?
(Made title actually useful. 02:16, 19 March 2006 (UTC)) StuRat
If a record goes silver,how many records has it sold?750,000?
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned Aba williams2002@hotmail.com talk contribs
According to , there is actually no silver classification. RIAA is America-only, though. I'm not sure if we have an article on non-American sales classifications. 23:39, 17 March 2006 (UTC) RIAA certification Jud e
See for list of countries and the silver classification. 23:41, 17 March 2006 (UTC) Gold album CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit What is the difference? England ? Britain ? UK ?
(Made title actually useful. 02:17, 19 March 2006 (UTC)) StuRat
I would like to know if there is any difference between United Kingdom,England & Great Britain
You're forgetting . =P -- 02:00, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Great Britain Nkcs
Doing my best to. 02:02, 18 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
What about ? 02:18, 18 March 2006 (UTC) British Isles JackofOz
Might as well give a short answer here. England is a historic kingdom. Great Britain is the island where it is located, also containing Scotland and Wales. The United Kingdom includes (and mentions in its full name) Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In terms of international relationships, the UK is the "country" that people deal with, i.e. an indepedent state; but for historical reasons, England is also called a country. Confusing things further is that the terms "England" and "(Great) Britain" are very often used informally when the UK is meant, and even in official use "British" can be the adjective for the UK. --Anonymous, 02:18 UTC, March 18, 2006.
And to continue just a little further, the British Isles are the whole chain of islands (of which Great Britain is the largest). It includes the whole of the UK plus the Republic of Ireland, plus a few small territories which belong to the UK but which have some degree of independence (The and the ). ... 06:00, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Channel Islands Isle of Man Grutness
wha?
Also, some languages don't make use of the name "United Kingdom" in any form, and just say "Great Britain" formally and informally when actually referring to the UK. -- 15:20, 18 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
And don't forget the , formerly the British Commonwealth, which includes just about every English speaking country, except the United States, and several that aren't, such as . 02:04, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Commonwealth of Nations India StuRat
India is very much an English-speaking country. It has 23 official languages, of which Hindi and English are the main two. The Commonwealth is veering a long way from the original question. It does include some possessions of the UK, but most Commonwealth countries do not fit that bill. 02:20, 19 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
Some Americans (yes, more than one) I've spoken to on the internet have asked me if England was in ... I sighed, and said that some of it is. | | | 02:17, 19 March 2006 (UTC) London Slumgum yap stalk
India, in fact, is the most populous English-speaking country in the world. (It also has more official languages than any other country). 01:49, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
Every US state has a capital, so why not every British state? | | | 02:00, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Slumgum yap stalk
This question is discussed in some length at . 02:18, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Talk:London#The Capital? JackofOz
So it sounds like London isn't really the capital of England, it's just traditionally considered the capital. 07:32, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
The answer to Slumgum's "why not" is that whereas each US state has its own government, England does not have its own government separate from the UK government. However, I say this is irrelevant. The UK government can pass laws and take other actions that apply only to England of it wants to, and I believe it sometimes does; and certainly it is located in London. That makes London the capital of England as well as the UK.
Of course, "London" in all this refers to the metropolis and not the City of London (see the article section on ). The government is actually in the City of Westminster, so if you really wanted to be picky you could say that Westminster is the capital both of England and of the UK. But nobody does that. --Anonymous, 01:15 UTC, March 23, 2006. defining London
But Westminster is of London (the county-level administrative area, not the City of London) so that still makes London the capital of the UK.part
(Inserted) Sure; I did not mean to imply otherwise. --Anon, 05:40 UTC.
From what I can gather of that article, England has no official capital, but London is the de facto capital. 02:11, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
[] edit Board Game
I am looking for a game that I played about a month back. I dont remember what it was called but I thought someone here might know about it. Its a game where someone reads the beginning of a saying and the other players guess the ending. The reader then reads the endings that all players wrote down and the real one. The players guess which one it the real answer. I know that there are 20 spaces on the board and each question starts off like: Theres an old German saying... or any other country/language you can think of. If anyone could help that would be great!! 00:52, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Zach
It sounds a little like ... 03:06, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Balderdash Keenan Pepper
Nah, I dont think so, thats a different one. -- 03:45, 18 March 2006 (UTC) 70.39.37.218
It's not Balderdash (though it would make an interesting variation of it - one correct saying ending, several false ones, everyone guess which is the correct one). Can't help with what it is, though. ... 06:02, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
Sounds a bit like a version of to me. And that article suggests it might be , though the "old German saying" bit sounds a bit high-brow for Mad Libs. -- 09:46, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Consequences Mad Libs Bth
On reflection, it doesn't sound like ; I was getting mixed up with the "20 spaces" thing to think that they all flowed on from one another. -- 09:56, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Consequences Bth
Ah ha!! I got it, thanks for everybodies help. It was but all those other games look fun too. 11:32, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Wise or Otherwise Zach
[] edit File Formats
Today I came across a file which I'm sure is a movie file, but came to me without an extension. Does anyone know of an easy way to determine it's original encoding? - 01:02, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Ridge Racer
Uh... I just googled it and I found . Try that one? 01:07, 18 March 2006 (UTC) AVICodec i ff
Under any Unix, you can use . -- 01:12, 18 March 2006 (UTC) file cesarb
No such luck here (Windows), but thanks Kieff, I thought it was an mpeg and it turns out it was actually a wmv. - 01:19, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Ridge Racer
[] edit Firefighting/Red Card
I am seeking to get my Red Card as soon as possible, so that I can fight fire in the west this summer. I understand that it is fairly easy to do and only requires two classes and a pack test. However, I live in Iowa and can't find classes offered close to me. Where in the closest place that I could take the tests and when?
This site looks to have some good information: 03:09, 18 March 2006 (UTC) [30] Rmhermen
[] edit Using Court Briefs as Resources
I was reading in the "reliable source" section that court transcripts pass the verifiablity test. The only source I could find for an alternative viewpoint for was documentation for containing the briefs for the plaintiff (alternative viewpoint), the respondent (primary viewpoint) and the state supreme court s ruling. My question is: Do court briefs and rulings like these pass the verifiability test or are they considered to be too opinionated? Can they be used as a reference? Thanks. 05:49, 18 March 2006 (UTC) one of the Wiki pages a Montana court case Davecornell
Sure, the source only has to verify the statement that the point of view in question is held. As long as the presentation of the information is NPOV the sources can be biased as all get out. -- 09:53, 18 March 2006 (UTC)here on Wikipedia Bth
If you say it as "so-and-so holds the opinion that...", then sure, that's fine. If you say "it's a known fact that..." followed by some wacky defense lawyer's dubious self-serving theory, then that would be very wrong. 01:57, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit firepaw.com
. Tell me, what is the purpose of the website www.firepaw.com ??? It has nothing to do with firepaw.org, mind you. The site just has 1 page, and nothing else! --antiestablishmentariansistLISTEN UP, MORTAL FOOLS!.
Looks like it could be a furry website under construction. Why on earth would we know? I've delinked your website in-case this a sneaky google-bomb attempt (since it has no merit as an actual question). 10:00, 18 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
--antiestablishmentarianistTHANK YOU, THENNow tell me what the purpose of something.com is!
Someone's idea of a joke, probably thought up at 3am after a whole keg of beers. Next question.
And please stop writing in bold. | 13:10, 19 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
The guy created something.com and waits for people who want to buy something, like all trained sellers do. -- 21:27, 19 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit Inflatable Purple Unicorns
What was Wikipedia's 1,000,000th article? Who was Wikipedia's 1,000,000th registered user? -- 10:01, 18 March 2006 (UTC) 172.136.16.23
. Not sure about the user. 10:07, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Jordanhill railway station  -- Run! 
The millionth user was , according to the . -- 19:58, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Romulus32 Wikipedia Signpost Cadaeib
Hmmm, so that means most users write less than one article ? I've written many already, so I guess I can retire and draw a pension now. :-) 01:50, 19 March 2006 (UTC)
That depends - were you a registered user? 02:48, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
Okay, thanks for the info. -- 04:47, 19 March 2006 (UTC) 172.156.88.10
[] edit wolfs and dogs
Of the races of dogs that exist in the world which is the race that more looks like a wolf?
Domestic dogs, i assume. Well it's not an easy line to draw between "domestic dog" and "wild dog" (since some wolves are domesticated somewhere but are still considered dominated by wild instincts). I suggest starting with our article and looking for pictures and links to websites with pictures. 14:42, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Dog  -- Run! 
, , etc. 14:52, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Wolfdog Huskies Rmhermen
BTW, they are called breeds of dogs, not races. That way, we don't need to give any of them benefits or other racial quotas. 01:45, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Affirmative Action StuRat
Don't huskies have races? Pulling ? -- | | | 01:48, 19 March 2006 (UTC) sledges Slumgum yap stalk
They do, at least until them for pulling too slowly. 03:54, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Susan Butchers StuRat
See . 09:07, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Iditarod CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
There are also wolf-dog hybrids, but their illegal in some states/counties/provinces. The is one of these. --antiestablishmentarianist Saarloos wolfhond
yes I was talking about breeds, sorry!!!
I've been searching for this, until now, the breed that I saw that more looks like with wolf is the alaskian malamute
[] edit What are the possible CRM & KMS Integration applications?
Dear All,
My company is a CRM solutions provider company. We are looking for software that can be integrated with ours. This will be beneficial for both the companies.
For example we have integrated our Defect Tracking System with Perforce SCM. So as a result if a Perforce software is sold and people asks for a Defect Tracking software, our Defect Tracking Software will be a natural choice(along with some other vendors). The opposite also holds true.
Another example is whenever our software is sold a third party HTML editor gets sold because it's embedded in our solution.
We have other modules like Sales Force Automation, Marketing Automation, Customer Helpdesk, Employee Helpdesk, CRM Portals, Knowledge Management System, Asset Management, Mobile CRM etc.
It will be of great help if anybody can suggest me other possible integrations/embedding which will result in sales enquiries for the above modules whenever the other software is sold. Call Center,ERP are some of the common integration possibilities. Apart from these two please suggest other applications which are very popular and will result in adding value to our eCRM suite.
Thanks is advance for your time and help.
Best Regards Pat
Boy, have you got the wrong audience here. The people who are crazy enough to give answers to crazy people, are not business types. You need to find people in suits with 3-letter names stamped on their collective foreheads. -- 15:25, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
Thanks Zeizmic for your suggestion. But I thought this site is dedicated to everything and somebody out there will have the knowledge to answer this. Please don't comment if you don't have an answer. I cannot answer anything about earthquakes!
Regards Pat
[] edit Arm and Leg weights
I wanted to ask how heavy weights should I buy at the start for arms if I weight 60KG and second what are the advantages and disadvantages of using/wearing Weights all day, and taking them off at night. And how long would it take for me to get used to the new weight and be able to buy heavier weights and what would be the limit for a human body to build up from weights. I mean, I think it's not possible to wear about 3KG at start and then add 3 more, and more, I mean there has to be a limit, and what would it be?
You're pretty small, so get the lightest weights you can find. When they no longer seem heavy, move up to the next weight, and so on. 01:39, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
A trainer I talked to strongly recommended against them with the thinking that they would place too much stress on the joints, etc, and may not give enough time for recovery. That is possible, so consider soreness, activity levels etc. Placing too much additional stress too quickly generally leads to injury, and overuse injuries can be a little slower and harder to notice. Think . - 19:52, 20 March 2006 (UTC) RSI Taxman
Talk
I would think that would be true of overdoing any form of exercise. In the case of wrist and ankle weights, they should most definitely not get the heaviest weights which will allow them to move, as that will seriously overtax their muscles. That is why I suggested the lightest weights they can find, initially. 22:49, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Bubble gum
How is bubblegum distibuted throughout the world? For whom are they produced? Are there any gum factories or companies in Canada and if so who and where?
1) On the soles of people's shoes, mostly. But also by more conventional means. 2) People who like chewing. 3) Try searching for it, looks like has a factory in Canada somewhere. -- 22:07, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Wrigley Company BluePlatypus
why are you asking? just curious.
[] edit congressmen edits
i have found the specific edits on meehan and am looking for more. any links or suggestions? thanks
Check out . -- 23:03, 18 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Congressional Staffer Edits Fastfission
thanks, i did check it out before. how do i sort through it? and how do i know who altered it (staffers)? i was just wondering if there was a shortcut
All we have are the IP addresses (the sets of four numbers) which correspond with what their internet service provider (ISP) has assigned them. So we can see that most of them are through Congress because that is what their ISP has listed those particular edits as being, and apparently we can even tell which branch of Congress it is. Other than that... no easy way to know unless they identify themselves. If you go down to the "Senate" section of the list you'll see that some of them are fairly well annotated for what they have done, if you click on the "contribs" next to the IP address it will show you all of their edits. Hope that helps. -- 21:47, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
[] edit boldersgate searies
Do you know when the games of the rest of the searies coming out for playstation 2
Do you mean the series ? That article contains a link to their web site (at the bottom). Try looking there. 03:22, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Baldur's Gate StuRat
[] edit Corporate Mergers and Buyouts
What happens to a person if they get terminated from a company, get a new job, and later the company they work for now is bought or merged with the company that they got terminated from?
That would be up to the new owners. --Anon, 06:01 UTC, March 19, 2006.
I would think it would be unlikely they would be fired again, because of the former firing, at any rate. An exception might be made if they were caught engaging in seriously unethical behavior, like stealing from the former company. Then again, in large companies nobody may even notice that a new employee from a merger is a formerly fired employee. 13:53, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Living World Two Vets.
Can you tell me how many World War 2 vets are still living. Also how many of these vets live in Indiana.
Thanks
Tom
suggests there's currently about 3.45m veterans living in the US (by the US defintion of 'veteran', at least). Indiana has about 2.1% of the US population... about 70-75,000 veterans in Indiana, assuming reasonable distribution across the country. | | 17:22, 19 March 2006 (UTC) This Shimgray talk
[] edit This picture: real?
Do you think that this picture is real? : -- http://www.ratemypoo.com/ratemy/poo?image=239282 Slim Shady
Geez, thanks for making me look at that ! Yes, I think it's real, but the bottle may be smaller than you think, perhaps an airline or minibar beer bottle. 13:47, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
WARNING: PICTURE CONTAINS FECES!
[] edit places of tourist intrest in Russia
I would like to kno of plcesof toursit interest in Russia, especially those not too far from Moscow
[] edit British Sailing Ship Aquitania
Does anybody know the following information about the SS Aquitania?
1. How long was it docked in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in 1918? 2. Where was it en-route to? 3. Did any passengers die on board ship? 4. If so, what of, and what are their names?
Also, can anyone dig up some passenger lists for the trip from Liverpool, UK, which docked in Halifax, Nova Scotia on November 28th, 1918?
I'm asking because my great-grandfather was on it, and would like to know what happened to him.
Thanks a lot if you can help 07:02, 19 March 2006 (UTC) CCLemon
Well so far the only person I could find on it was . Also after some searching I got from the University of Livepool. The Cunard archives are not available but it gives a couple of links that might be able to help. 09:01, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Kenneth Gerald Freeman this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Graphics glitches.
A friend of mine runs a copy of on his PC. The graphics card is quite good and modern; it runs Unreal Tournament 2004 at 50fps and above, runs Photoshop just fine, etc. However, in Far Cry, there are often large patches of black replacing textures -- at some points, the green ground will be replaced by a large square of black, and stays there during movement, even though the blades of grass, dead bodies, etc appear above it normally.Far Cry
A separate question: his PC also randomly turns itself off quite suddenly. There's just the PC and monitor plugged into the powerpoint, the house is new and can handle the electricity recquired, and the case and components are room temperature or cooler when it happens. Aside from a bad power supply unit, what could be wrong?
Thanks to any who respond.
His PC's power settings may be set to turn the PC off after a certain amount of time. Check Control Panel -> battery settings (i think that's what it is in English). As far as the other problem goes, i can't help you there. 07:59, 19 March 2006 (UTC) CCLemon
Make sure all drivers are updated. I was gonna say it might be an overheating issue, but if it's just happening in that one game, it's probably just a game-specific bug. Some games just don't work well with certain graphics cards :-P 08:01, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Cyde Weys
Those problems with the graphics are quite common...i think they are called artifacts....If your graphics card is overclocked or if its clock speed is not high enough....it causes that problem... tell your friend to test it on another graphics card... And for the other problem.... there might be something wrong with the SNPS of the computer.... or just check the power settings of the computer.... 09:23, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
As for the restarting thing, I assume it's the PSU (power supply unit). So you should start by swapping that for a verified working one. If you've already tried that, try changing the memory (if there are two sticks of RAM remove one at a time and see if that solves it, and if it doesn't try it with fresh working memory). And if that doesn't work, try unplugging all unnecessary stuff - sound cards, non-vital drives, network cards etc. to see if you can narrow down the problem to one thing. If it's not that, it might be the processor - try changing that. Past that it's probably a motherboard problem, at which point you are stuck. Of course, the problem with this method is that you need a friend with a lot of spare PC bits. 21:40, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Sum0
[] edit Non-specific facts!
Hi, I would be greatfull if someone could help me with the following - I work as an Inventory Controller in a large warehouse. One of my colleagues has sent me a mail asking if it would be ok to store some equipment in the warehouse. They have stated that the total volume of the equipment is 191.25 CDM. What does CDM mean?
I don't wont to show my ignorance by asking my colleague. Please advice. Thanks. -- Brian
It means . One cubic decimetre is the same as one . 16:38, 19 March 2006 (UTC) cubic decimetre litre i ff
You shouldn't be so embarrassed to ask your colleague. After he answered you would just reply "Oh, we don't use that measurement, we use...", and he should understand your confusion. 17:54, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
And besides, according to the standard, the proper symbol for cubic decimeters is dm with a superscript 3: . I've never seen used before (though I'm not surprised if there are people somewhere who use it regularly), so I'm not surprised if you haven't either. --Anonymous, 19:28 UTC, March 19, 2006. SI dmCDM
Supporting the foregoing comment, the has 60 meanings for "CDM", with 199 more in the , and not one of those is "cubic decimeters". The Acronym Finder isn't perfect, but something not listed is probably not in widespread use. 22:38, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Acronym Finder Acronym Attic JamesMLane
   t c
I would be seriously concerned about the insurance issue of storing your colleague's stuff at your (employer's?) warehouse. If there is a fire, theft etc., or if the material is hazardous and causes damage, who is liable? Not a situation I would want to get into.
[] edit Villains from Sitcoms
Do you know of any from like "" and ""? villains sitcoms Malcolm In The Middle Friends
Well, Malcolm's brother Reese frequently plays the villain, at least from Malcolm's POV, but not always. 19:45, 19 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Lois and Craig are much worse. IMO. -- | | | 20:23, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Slumgum yap stalk
Well, they don't try to intentionally make Malcolm's life miserable, but Reese does. 22:54, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Friends, being a sitcom filled with siny happy people holding hands, only has two characters that come anywhere close to being villains: Mr. Heckles, the downstairs neighbour in the early seasons; and Ursula Buffay, Phoebe's twin sister. Other than that, the only people that act "villanous" are usually unnamed bit parts in single episodes. Also, from Ross's perspective, Susan Bunch, his ex-wife Carol's lesbian life partner, is somewhat of a villain. Under a very, loose definition of the term villain, you can include Eddie, the crazy guy who moved in with Chandler when Joey moved out; Janice, Chandler's ex-girlfriend who annoys everyone immesurably; and Mark, the person basically responsible for Ross and Rachel breaking up. If you want a sitcom where there's plenty of villains to choose from, try . -- 21:13, 19 March 2006 (UTC)very Seinfeld Aram
On Seinfeld, the main group of friends are arguably villains. 01:32, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
And while on , don't forget Newman. 22:54, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Seinfeld StuRat
Hello...Newman. 02:58, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
Another character that might be classified as a villain is . -- 23:05, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Seinfeld "Crazy" Joe Davola andrewpaull
Other villains on were Lavernia (Francis's boss when he lived in Alaska) and Victor and Ida (Lois's parents). -- 23:58, 20 March 2006 (UTC)Malcolm in the Middle Metropolitan90
And Commandant Spangler, from the military school. 03:32, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit What are the best American colleges for Political Science?
I mean, I've been asking everyone, yknow.
The whole list is in this section. -- 19:44, 20 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit Historical British Army Ranks
Re: Staff Sergeant Major
I am unable to find any mention of the above noted rank in any of your web pages.
I understand the rank did exist at Sandhurst and persons so appointed were 'instructors of instructors.'
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police recently appointed a number of people to the rank once again as at one time that organization did have 'staff sergeant majors.'
I would appreciate any information which may be forthcoming in the above regard.
Thank you. Alan -- 19:30, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Ernestalan
Why some people go to sleep naked?
Why would anyone wear clothes in bed? 20:37, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
It's hard to find good pajamas for adults, at least in the US, and wearing day clothes is uncomfortable. 21:25, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
So they can be ready to answer the door. 23:35, 19 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
.... or knock on the door ... 00:42, 20 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
What? 00:52, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
That was a slightly salacious reference to what adults do in bed with each other when they're naked. I'm sure you can work it out. 00:56, 20 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
Seems like a facetious question. ("Facetious" in this case from its etymological roots: "having more than one facet ... two-faced ... duplicitous ... not entirely forthright ... bogus" (but also with the more modern implications: "impish, prankish, etc").
One obvious retort would be: (obviously because this is a situation in which any would just get in the way). More generally there are some people who don't feel compelled to wear clothing in the privacy of their own bed, bath, or perhaps in their homes in general. Of course there are people who consider most clothing to be an unnatural affectation ... and artifact of our culture. (They often call themselves ; while others often refer to them as "nudists"). For some this is a political, social or spiritual matter. For others it's a simple matter of pragmatism. (For example a couple who are intimate may prefer to sleep in the nude simply because it affords them more opportunity for spontaneous indulgence in their relations; in counterpoint the ", and especially the is primarily an garment). Another question one might ask would be: Obvious answers might include: supplemental insulation (for colder climes or seasons), insulation for any midnight trips to the lavatory or for during midnight snacks, insurance of the ability to rapidly answer the door or flee during fire or other emergency, absorbence of perspiration (keeping the sheets and blankets cleaner?), and, of course personal preference and habit. Of course many of those purposes can be readily served by simply keeping a robe and slippers within arm's reach of the bed. Ultimately the choice of bed time attire is mostly dictated by custom, habit and personal preference. Our plays a dominant role in how our parents were raised, and in turn how the raise us ... and this forms he basis for many of our habits and prejudices (preferences). When I answer a question like this I really try to show how much of the answer is already covered by existing WP articles. 01:31, 20 March 2006 (UTC)why do some/many people bathe in the nude? clothing naturists sexual nightie babydoll erotic what purposes are served by , night gowns or other bed clothes? pajamas culture JimD
The main reason (for me) is because I find it more comfortable. 01:46, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Thryduulf
"If God had meant for us to be nudists, we all would have been born buck naked." 02:04, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Was King Arthur Real?
Hi, I'm doing a report for my PRE.AP. English class on an Unsolved Mystery. And I have chosen the topic 'Was King Arthur Real', and I was looking on this site for any information to that subject, and came up empty handed. And so, I was wondering if there was anything on here or on another web site that could be helpful to my report, could you please e-mail me the web site name or link? That would be so much help! Thanks for your time! -K.C.
The far-too-clever answer is to turn in a paper saying "No, died before he became king". But what you want, I think, is our article on the . | | 21:31, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Arthur, Prince of Wales historical basis for King Arthur Shimgray talk
You may also want to try reading 's books. He's a very entertaining writer, and knows his stuff. Try . 21:02, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Geoffrey Ashe The Discovery of King Arthur 64.198.112.210
Not to offer to do your homework for you, but this is one of my favorite topics, and I'm willing to help you research if you get stuck. And supposedly, Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britian has quite a bit of history behind all the fantasy. 21:04, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Ductape Daredevil
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned Phldcksy talk contribs
There seems to be some genetic component - see . -- 22:34, 19 March 2006 (UTC) Alzheimer's disease Robert Merkel
What climate type is Strobilanthus dyerianus found?
Sure you don't mean , with an ? 22:46, 19 March 2006 (UTC)dyerianus Strobilanthes E Keenan Pepper
Strobilanthes - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
And from the latter link : "Persian Shield grows best outdoors in zones 9 and 10 (e.g. : Texas, Florida, California), although it can survive in other zones as a houseplant." -- 19:40, 20 March 2006 (UTC) USDA DLL
[] edit Free Web Hosting
What is the best free web hosting out there? I like Freewebs but I have a problem with loading every individual file from my site.-- 23:14, 19 March 2006 (UTC) 154.20.89.16
[] edit Armour Institute Chicago
In researching my great uncle, Rev. William Alvin Bartlett, who was Pastor of Plymouth Church in Chicago during the great fire, one of his church members was Joseph Armour. He was called from Chicago to Washington D.C.
In his final sermon,November 11, 1894 from The New York Avenue Presbyterian Church in Washington D.C. Dr. Bartlett spoke:
"With Joseph Armour I spied out the ground and laid the foundation for what is today the great Armour Institute. We selected the site on the prarie, as it then was, for a mission of Plymouth Church; but Mr. Armour delayed deeding the property until he began to get other conceptions; and at his death, he committed the work to his brother, who has carried it on to its present magnificent proportions.
Could this appear anywhere in Wikipedia? The web sites give credit another minister.
I apologize if this is a clumsy way to contact the author of the above. Best I could think of, not being fully familiar with Wiki navigation. I would like to correspond privately. Please send a message to Paul C. Bartlett at pintare@nque.com.Italic text
I was wondering, how do I donate an article and what are the requirements?
-- 23:59, 19 March 2006 (UTC) 72.197.201.129
You don't really "donate" articles...you just write them! Don't cut and paste content from copyrighted webpages. Donate your time to write quality articles on any topic you like - as long as it's notable, and presented in a neutral fashion. To start off, just type in the article name in the search box to your left, and then follow the instructions that show up on the screen. Somewhere at the top of the screen it would say "edit this page" or "create an article". Hope this helps, and if you have any questions, feel free to come back, or drop by my talk page! -- 00:01, 20 March 2006 (UTC) HappyCamper
[] edit March 20
[] edit continuation of "article donation" question
It doesn't say "Create an article" at the top of the screen, and I don't see how editing an existing article would go toward contributing a new one. Please clarify.
-- 00:15, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Aleph1.0
Once you have a title use the search box to look and see if the article already exsists. If not then again using the search box click on "Go" at the top will be a read link that will allow you to create the article with the title you choose. 00:26, 20 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
In the long run editing an article may help to create a new on. If you look at somthing like you will see that it's a large article. As you scroll down there is a link to . The Montreal article has been added to and got so large that a new article History of Montreal was created. 00:31, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Montreal History of Montreal CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
BTW, it's "red", not "read". Freudian slip? | | | 00:32, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Slumgum yap stalk
Yes, a purple link is a read link. :-) 01:59, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I've been suitly emphazi. 05:35, 20 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
It's "read" in Old English. -- 16:08, 20 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
[] edit Can blind people jump?
This is a question that has been bugging me for a while: are congenitally completely blind people capable of successfully jumping horizontally, for example across a stream? It seems to me that visual-spatial coordination would be vital to such a task, and so I don't know if a blind person would possess the ability to do make the jump. -- 00:28, 20 March 2006 (UTC) jp3z
I'm sure someone would physically be able to do it, but judging the distance and how (and when) to land would be very difficult. | | | 00:35, 20 March 2006 (UTC)
Slumgum yap stalk
Of course they are capable of jumping. They might not have the accuracy of a seeing person, but they can do it. The only cases where a blind person wouldn't be able to jump would be if they couldn't use their legs or something like that.
In short, the ability to see is independent of the ability to use your legs, and vice versa, so the blind people that retain control of their legs can jump.-- 00:39, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Aleph1.0
The question was if they could "successfully" jump. It would seem that anyone could perform some quick and very inexpensive experiments by simply trying to jump across some small innocuous obstacles with one's eyes closed (or wearing blindfolds). Obviously gauging distance and landing surface would be difficult (or impossible) and it's possible that maintaining balance on landing might also pose additional challenges. Of course a congenitally blinding person might be able to fare better than a sighted person who was blindfolded. They have considerably more experience maintaining their balance without visual cues which most of us take for granted. 01:46, 20 March 2006 (UTC) JimD
The includes a long jump and triple jump for blind athletes and a high jump for athletes with limited vision. So yes, blind people can jump. Unless they're white :). -- 01:57, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Paralympics Mwalcoff
[] edit Animals in Asia
An animal that is reputed to commit mass suicide by running headlong off cliffs (minglem)
Are you thinking of ? -- | | | 00:38, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Lemmings Slumgum yap stalk
Why would they run headlong off cliffs? I think that only suicidal humans, flying squirrels, birds, and other animals that can fly would run off cliffs.
Lemmings don't really run off cliffs, it's a persistent myth. 01:27, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
It was once a delicious . Our article states : "Lemmings are very delicate creatures and will die under any of the following conditions. They will die if they : video game
Fall down from too great a height.
Fall off the map.
Walk into water, lava, or slime.
Step into a trap, such as a spring-loaded trap, compressor, etc.
Are ordered to explode." -- 18:49, 20 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
Never in my life have I ever been able to get past the first level of that game my friends haven't either. | 18:55, 20 March 2006 (UTC) K ilo-Lima (talk)
All you do is command any one of the Lemmings to dig. It doesn't matter where, or which one. It only takes one command.
Disney made one of their nature documentaries about them and when they found out lemmings don't jump off cliffs they pushed!hotclaws**==
[] edit actor
is there an actor whose every film (and stage performance if any) have been a success? thanks
Impossible to answer without a particular definition of "success". Getting all ones lines right, critical acclaim, film/play makes a profit, film/play is a blockbuster? Anyone with one acting credit to their name could conceivably fit this bill in some way or another. -- 01:59, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Canley
I suspect this would only be true of people with very small numbers of films, too. might be a possibility, for instance. ... 06:37, 20 March 2006 (UTC) James Dean Grutness
wha?
Well i know one actor in Tamil. 10:08, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Suraj vas
If you don't count (in which he appeared in archive footage), every one of 's films was nominated for the Oscar. Not sure if his stage career was quite as exceptional. - 08:54, 24 March 2006 (UTC) The Godfather Part III John Cazale Best Picture Wiccan Quagga
[] edit Real Estate: Needing Assistance. Thank You!
Ref: Real Estate Property
What is the difference between the two (last 6 words)............
DEFAULT BY SELLER: If the Seller fails to perform any of the covenants of this contract, the aforesaid money paid by the Buyer, at the option of the buyer, shall be returned to the Buyer on demand; or the Buyer shall have "ONLY THE RIGHT OF SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE"
and........."THE RIGHT OF SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE?" Thank You!
A on the terms: and (quoted as indicated) provides a wealth of explanations to this principle. The gist of it: this clause limits the buyer from suing for damages (monetary compensation) and allows only for any suit to require the seller to perform whatever duties were spelled out in the provisions of the contract. In other words if I were the seller and there were some clause that regarding a termite inspection or tenting and extermination ... and I failed to provide those ... you could sue to require me to perform those but you couldn't pay someone to do it and then sue me for damages. Of course you should really discuss any legal questions with a qualified attorney ... one who is a specialist in your locality and in the branch of law at hand (real estate in this case). 02:02, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Google search "specific peformance,"law"real estate" JimD
[] edit College Tuition Statistics
Hello, I was wondering if it would be possible to get information on specific college tuition fees since 1996 (what the average student was paying each year). I will be making a scatter plot with these costs. I need the information for Rhode Island School of Design, and Parsons School of Design. It would be great if you could provide me with that information. Thank you for your time.
Can't get it online, but find a high school guidance counselor who keeps back copies of the annual college review books. 02:06, 20 March 2006 (UTC) alteripse
[] edit Sports Facts
What was the origial meaning of the letter E in ESPN??
It spells it out on the first line of the article. | 03:41, 20 March 2006 (UTC) ESPN Dismas (talk)
[] edit Linking to pages
I recently linked to a page on the Wikipedia iPod page. The link was extremely relevant and has very high quality information, even if it is my own site. I recently got a letter from a user and had the link deleted saying that I can't use Wikipedia to post commercial links. In no way is my site for commercial purposes. The goal of the site is to help iPod users, especially in converting DVDs. The site functions well and is updated almost constantly. It is perfectly relevant and has very high-quality content, so I encourage you to take a look and see if the claim I make is true (I am very confident). I just want to know whether I should re-post the link or keep it off. Thank you, andsorry for the rambling.
--ekozie
The best thing to do is ask first on . If no one objects, go ahead and add it. - 04:31, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Talk:iPod Superm401 Talk
[] edit Getting Developer Attention
Got any ideas on how to get a Dev to look at ? About a dozen languages have been approved, and the Norman test-Wiki has well over 100 articles already (more than nearly half of our actual Wikipedias). No new wikipedias have been created in several months, however. 03:52, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Approved requests for new languages The Jade Knight
[] edit highest score
What is the highest individual points scored in a regulation game of basketball at any level? And by who? When? 04:26, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Im in ur house
Supposedly, 13-year-old Mats Wermelin scored 272 points in a 272-0 Swedish basketball game in 1974. John Barber is said to have scored 188 points for Los Angeles State in a 206-82 win over Chapman College Junior Varsity in 1953. Erman Kunter of Fenerbahce Istanbul in Turkey is reputed to have scored 153 points in a 175-99 defeat of Hilalspor Izmir in 1988. But the record I'd trust is Danny Heater's famous 135-point performance for Burnsville High in West Virginia against Widen in 1960 . [31]
And for the U.S. NBA, it was with just 100 points. | 06:52, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Wilt Chamberlain Dismas (talk)
Note that being a good player is not the only factor that goes into scoring lots of points. Other important factors include an opposing team incapable of mounting any true opposition and the player's teammates willingness to pass him the ball for each shot rather than take the shot themselves. 14:42, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit How may i contact.
This man wrote a article on your site, about Henry hill, the gangster, who was a F.B.I. informant in the 50's and 60's, new york. The man who wrote this article his name is: Jonathan Dunder, who I am assuming may work for the Wikipedia Foundation.Please help with any information u could help me with, would like to contact this gentlemen, so that possibly he may be able to help me to contact mr. Henry Hill, for a interview. Thank You. Mr. Bruce McGlasson.
Well looking at the of it appears that the original article was by so I suggest that you contact him at . 06:39, 20 March 2006 (UTC) history Henry Hill User:AntonioMartin User talk:AntonioMartin CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
helped write that article. Intiguing thing is that there is no - so presumably that's the real name of someone here with a user name. If so, you could either leave a note on that person's User talk page or go to his user page then click on the "email this user" link in the toolbox at the side of the page. ... 06:48, 20 March 2006 (UTC) a lot of people User:Jonathan Dunder Grutness
wha?
Henry Hill is in the witness protection program so it is doubtful if you can get an interview, though did & wrote a book about him. You might try asking the F.B.I. to pass along any request for an interview. 12:16, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Nicholas Pileggi AllanHainey
No he's not. He was, but not any longer. From what I've heard, he spends a lot of time in Europe, to keep away from folks that might want to harm him, even though his cadre of crime assosicates are now mostly deceased. 21:36, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
[] edit File links
Hi there,
i was browsing an article and noticed that there were currently no pictures of the area that i was looking at. I decided to create and account and upload my own photo of the place. I released the photo into the public domain but i dont know how to edit the article to include my photo.
cheers Harry
See . | 06:53, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Picture tutorial Dismas (talk)
Nice picture! If you'd like more help than the tutorial Dismas pointed you at can provide, feel free to ask. () 17:39, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
It must be very easy but please Steve explain to me how did you find the pic ? Give details! -- 18:25, 20 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
I'll hazard a guess that he selected the link, went back far enough to find that the query was added in by , then checked that user's . And, yes, it is a nice picture. 22:54, 20 March 2006 (UTC) "Page history" this edit User:Lost Soul contribution list JamesMLane
[] edit Homosexuality
Please answer these questions only if you are a Christian, or if you're not, then answer them in the .Christian point of view
1.When you Christians say that homosexuality is morally wrong, are you saying or do you mean that it is wrong for a person to with someone of his or her same gender?fall in love
2.If homosexuality is wrong and a person is homosexual(whether that person knows Jesus or not), then what should he or she do about it?
3.What causes homosexuality?
4.I've heard that homosexuality is(probably) caused by one's genes and/or by chemicals in one's brain called hormones or pheromones.If homosexuality really is bad and it is determined by one's personal choice, then what do you have to say about that?
5.I've heard that homosexuality exists not only in humans but .(If you don't believe, then see .)If homosexuality is just like what Christinas believe, then what do you have to say about that?also in animals Homosexuality_in_animals#Homosexual_behaviour
07:00, 20 March 2006 (UTC) User:Bowei
I'm not a Christian, but you might find some answers to your questions in the articles: , and . -- 07:42, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Religion and sexual orientation Homosexuality and Christianity Homosexuality Canley
While I cannot speak for all Christians (and no one here can), I will do my best to try to provide some speculative answers:
Part of the difficulty in answering this question is that "love" is a word in the English language with many meanings. Some Christians may feel that it is wrong to "fall in love" with other men, but others may feel that it is only sexual acts, and by extension, sexual desire between men that is wrong. I believe that the only passages in the Bible condemning homosexuality speak of the sexual act, and don't enter into feelings.romantically
This question is even more complex. If an individual is homosexual but desires to be heterosexual, there are many things one can attempt. Some of the difficulties with this issue are related to the following question, but the article on may be helpful. However, please be aware that this is a very controversial subject, particularly among homosexuals. Ex-gay
This topic is also one of great controversy. Some argue that the cause is genetic or biological in nature, while others believe that it is caused by psychological trauma or disturbances, or some other sociological cause. It is clear that in some cultures, at least, homosexuality is sociological in nature, but the debate continues to rage on psychologists tend to argue that homosexuality is psychological, geneticists tend to argue that it is genetic, and sociologists tend to argue that it is social in origin. I highly recommend you take a good look at the article on for a better overview. Most Christians who oppose homosexuality (not all do!) would likely, I expect, insist that it is psychological or social in nature. Homosexuality
Once again, it is a controversial subject. Some hold that it is chemical or genetic, but there is no consensus. I'm not really sure how to answer your question, however. You might find link amusing, however. this
I'm not exactly sure what you mean by "what do you have to say about that". Certainly some species engage in homosexuality. However, if one believes in evolution (many Christians don't), it should be clear that homosexuality is not an evolutionarily advantageous trait, and if it is genetic in animals, the gene in theory die out among species (bisexuality in animals is potentially a different matter), leading one to expect that a non-genetic cause may be likely (consider the linked article above).should
I hope you found this helpful. 07:51, 20 March 2006 (UTC) The Jade Knight
Evolution is not that simple.:) 13:13, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
Attempting to answer from a Christian point of view: question 5 is simply irrelevant. Doubtless examples of behaviour people might describe as homosexuality can be found among animals. Examples can also be found among animals of behaviour that might be described as (from a longer list): compassion; murder; self-sacrifice; rape. Christians simply do not base their behaviour and beliefs, and ideas of what is right and wrong, on what animals can be observed to be doing. 12:24, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
is a very inaccurate generalisation. I suspect most Christians in Europe would not say that. 13:13, 20 March 2006 (UTC)you Christians say that homosexuality is morally wrong Mark your words
The most definitely condemns homosexual acts. However, it also appears to support slavery, the subjugation of women, killing children, and genocide, so we can't put much stock in what the Bible says. It's essentially just a record of what the men of the time thought was moral, not an absolute guide to morality. 14:32, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Bible StuRat
Many people would say that homosexuality is not morally wrong, but against what the bible instructs, that is for people to 1. love. and 2. procreate. Although this is what the bible teaches, many Christians are against this as homosexuality is still seen as the purpose of loving, just not procreation, and many married couples do not procreate.-- 14:40, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Ali K
May I suggest you read the Bible? Leviticus, chapter 18, verse 22, clearly answers the question of right or wrong. Cynics will suggest the Bible is outdated and lacks the understanding of todays problems. I take the view that it is a guidebook to lifes questions and you must apply what you learn. Prayer, meditation and seeking the consul of a minister help you interpret what may seem confusing advice. Many people attempt to twist or deliberately misinterpret the writings of the Good Book to meet their individual goals or agenda. On this question though, it is clearly written and unmistakable...homosexuality is wrong and is an abomination in the Lord's eyes. We should not shun or deliberately harm these people, but neither should we encourage or approve of their lifestyle. The media seems to love this subject. The controversial and taboo subjects arouse curiosity from the straight and gay population, attracting more viewers and increasing ad rates. The more we fall prey to this, the more we encourage them to put this garbage on TV. The answers to this and other problems can be found in the Bible. When one takes the time to read, one can learn a great deal about life.
He's right you know, I never thought much of until the day I read that wonderful passage in Song of Songs: "My beloved put in his hand by the hole of the door, and my bowels were moved for him." 21:21, 20 March 2006 (UTC) fistfucking David Sneek
May I suggest that if you want to use the Bible to justify your hate, that you can't pick and choose which verses you like. In Deuteronomy, chapter 22, verses 13 through 21, we see that if a woman is not a virgin at the time of marriage, she must be stoned to death. Then there's that whole thing in 2 Kings, chapter 2, verses 23 and 24, where God sends a couple bears to kill 42 children, some of whom called Elisha "Baldy." So yeah, if some kids make fun of you, by all means, sic a wild animal or two on 'em. I'll live my life without relying on a book of fairy tales, thanks. -- 16:41, 20 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
I understand that this is emotive stuff, but let's try and keep it . 16:46, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:civil Matt Crypto
And if you, or your priest, are going to pick and choose which parts of the Bible to believe, only selecting those parts which support your world view, why use the Bible at all ? Just figure out what you believe to be right and go with it. 16:57, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I will not attempt to justify my prior response, but I will point out that the original questioner has somewhat of a history of posting "questions" that some might consider prosyletizing or even trolling. Even attempting to dictate who can answer this question, or what POV is required when answering is questionable. -- 17:33, 20 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
In answer to question 3, conservative Christians might point to , which suggests that God "gave [people] over to shameful lusts", because they "neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him", and that they engaged in . 16:46, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Romans 1:18-27 idolatry Matt Crypto
IANAD (doctor of faith), but can give there a Christian (catholic) POV : "Persona Humana - Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics
"At the present time there are those who, basing themselves on observations in the psychological order, have begun to judge indulgently, and even to excuse completely, homosexual relations between certain people. This they do in opposition to the constant teaching of the Magisterium and to the moral sense of the Christian people.
A distinction is drawn, and it seems with some reason, between homosexuals whose tendency comes from a false education, from a lack of normal sexual development, from habit, from bad example, or from other similar causes, and is transitory or at least not incurable; and homosexuals who are definitively such because of some kind of innate instinct or a pathological constitution judged to be incurable.
In regard to this second category of subjects, some people conclude that their tendency is so natural that it justifies, &c. ..." (Vatican site.) [32]
Only the magisterium (autority of the Church) is invoked, not the Book which is recognised as what it is : not fairy tales, nor history, nor moral dogma, our best souvenir. As to homosexuals, they divide between the incurable and the evil. When did they put those rules (plenty of fathers were neoplatonists) ? What if people listened to that ? See also Wikipedia articles about such subjects. -- 18:19, 20 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
"Homosexual men aren't all that different, they just prefer to think 'outside the box'." 21:54, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Isnt the goal of every species to keep on reproducing in order to keep their species alive? Shouldn't then humans stick to the natural method of achieving this, that is sticking to heterosexuality? 05:24, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Im in ur house
That certainly is a goal, but not the only goal. If we were to forbid all activities that don't directly lead to reproduction we would ban most of human activity. Just keeping to sexual practices, this would ban:
Non-vaginal forms of sex.
Sex by women past the age of menopause.
Sex by the infertile.
Sex when the woman is in an infertile time of her monthly cycle.
Kissing.
15:34, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
"Isnt the goal of every species to keep on reproducing in order to keep their species alive?" The Bible says to "go forth and multiply and fill the Earth". Of course, by now, with six billion of us roaming this planet, the Earth is quite full, thank you very much, and it is overpopulation that threatens our ability to keep our species alive, not failure to reproduce. | 15:46, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Ground Zero t
[] edit Outlook Express error.
When I click FILE -> EXPORT -> MESSAGES in Outlook Express, I get the error . What could this mean, and how can I fix it? It's quite urgent.An error occurred while initialising MAPI
I don't know what it means although I'm sure you'll get an answer soon. I've never found a reliable way to export messages using Outlook Express alone. I suggest you download a free copy of Mail Navigator from www.mailnavigator.com which will do the work for you. -- 14:14, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Shantavira
What format do you need to export into? Because if you just want to back up your entire mail store, then you need to go into your Outlook Express store directory (listed in one of the panes of Tools -> Options) and copy all the .pst files from there. If you need to back up one or two messages, you can open them (double-click) and then File -> Save As. Hope that helps. | 16:55, 20 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
I want to save all my messages, in the folders they're in, and put them into Outlook '97 instead of Outlook Express... how would I do that?
[] edit Venezuela Government Restrictions
Have the Venezuela Government seized bank accounts in Venezuela and placed restrictions on transferring funds into U S bank accounts? If so, what dollar amount can a person transfer from a Venezuela bank to a U S bank?
Thank tou for a prompt response.
I am not aware of any such actions from the Venezuelan Government, but could not tell you for sure. Consider the articles on , , and . 09:13, 20 March 2006 (UTC) United States-Venezuela relations Economy of Venezuela Current political events of Venezuela The Jade Knight
[] edit The Greatest Library
I was just wondering where the greatest library in the world, is to be found?
~Simon
See . The largest academic library in the world would appear to be . 09:30, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Some famous libraries Widener Library The Jade Knight
The largest academic library system is Harvard's; however, several universities have single libraries larger the Widener. 21:15, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
No way dude. all the way. Yoo Ess Ay! Yoo Ess Ay! 13:20, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Library of Congress Keenan Pepper
You Ass Ey? 13:46, 20 March 2006 (UTC) DirkvdM
Suitly emphazi? 16:50, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
20:53, 20 March 2006 (UTC) USA 64.198.112.210
You boys have some catching up to do ;-) 21:06, 20 March 2006 (UTC)[The ] contains more than 130 million items, second only to the (with over 150 million items). Library of Congress British Library adamsan
I vote , if only for its Orwellian architecture and ability to make students disappear. ;-) | 16:51, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Cambridge University Library QuantumEleven (talk)
Well, making Tabs disappear is only right and proper. 17:06, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
You're just jealous because, because, your library's tower isn't as tall and intimidating as ours! ;-) | 09:08, 21 March 2006 (UTC)
erm, um,
[] edit Philip Cleife
I would like some information and the biography on author Philip Cleife (Tour de Force, Harper and Row Publishing, 1971). I have searched the net, unsuccessfully thus far. This is not for a homework or research project, just idle curiosity on my part. Thank you for your time and consideration-- 15:26, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Jimgteague
In response to the above............ I am his son, suggest you read his autobiographical "Airway to the Isles".
[] edit Which male species is able to get pregnant?
In WIKIPEDIA it states that a Sea Horse is one of the few male species that gets pregnant - I thought it was the only one. Could someone please state the others.
Where in Wikipedia does it state this? Have you looked at ? 05:25, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Male pregnancy The Jade Knight
It is stated in the opening paragraphs of the article. -- 15:20, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Seahorse LarryMac
Under 'male pregnancies it states "can be found in the animal kingdom". Does anyone know which animals? [kosovotaff]
can. 20:52, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Humans 64.198.112.210
[] edit rediculously high cost long distance charges possible?
I've heard that there are some scams out there that trick you into calling a number for something, and by calling that number you are forced to pay like 20 dollars a minute (Canadian).
I'm wondering, is it possible to somehow make it so if you call a certain phone number or use a certain phone service you'd have to pay ridiculously high charges? I'm talking like hundreds, or thousands of dollars a minute.
Yes, they can charge whatever rate they want, and some countries don't even require that you be notified of the amount and given a chance to decline before accruing charges. One variation on this scam is a virus you download which includes an autodialer program, which causes your computer to dial a number without your permission. If your computer ever starts dialing a number for no apparent reason, shut it down immediately, or at least pull the modem connection. However, at least in the US, you can notify your long distance carrier and say the charge is in dispute, and they won't cut off your phone service if you refuse to pay it. 17:43, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
One way that this sort of thing has been done as a scam is to use numbers that at actually international calls, but which the scammer hopes you won't recognize as international. For victims in the US and Canada, this most likely involves a call to one of the 15 or so Caribbean island countries and territories that are part of the . They have area codes that look just like our ordinary ones and are dialed like an ordinary long-distance call, not like international calls to other countries. (Originally they all shared one area code, 809, but now they are all different.) You would expect the cost of the international call to go to the phone companies, but the scammers are working with them and getting a kickback for routing the calls to that country. Presumably it is also possible that you are calling a premium-rate number in the other country because you don't know what numbers would be premium there. --Anonymous, 22:55 UTC, March 20/06. North American numbering plan
Ouch - that happened to me. I thought I was on my normal internet connection - actually I was connected to a number in . 1.50/min. Fortunately I realised before too long and the total bill was only about 40 but some people have had bills of 1,000 plus. So now I have a phone lock, which means I can only dial local numbers unless I unlock the phone first - so these auto-diallers cant do their stuff. 23:59, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Tuvalu Jameswilson
I recommend using to help prevent such attacks. 05:22, 21 March 2006 (UTC) SpyBot The Jade Knight
Yes, and also . 15:39, 21 March 2006 (UTC) AdAware StuRat
[] edit Model A production and distribution.
I am interested in any information that may be available as to the production of Ford Model A automobiles and if there exists a distribution list as to where certain models were sold and distributed.
Thank You
Bob Bethell <removed email, read top of page>
[] edit Design for yoga room
I'm interested in building plans for a room for yoga in my basement which is currently a 12 course high concrete block windowless area. Ideally it would be just large enough for one person to use and I would be able to disassembe it whenever I move it to a new house. Lighting, electric floor heating, ventilation and a some provision for storing a mat, meditation cushion and should be an integral part of the plan. Input appreciated. Because I live in a condo no structural alteration is possible. Looking forward to the responses. David,Pittsford, New York
Well, I wouldn't think you would need to do much. I assume the basement already has adequate lighting and the air temp is reasonable for yoga. Once thing that could be a problem is the cold floor, which might be quite a shock on bare feet. A throw rug would make it less of a shock, enough to get you from the door to the mats without too much pain. However, if you store the mats on the floor, they might get quite cold, too, and might get spiders and other insects on them.
I suggest you store them upstairs, where it's warm. If you insist on storing them in the basement, at least ensure that they are stored off the floor. Aiming one or more forced air electrical space heaters (electrical "fire", if your a Brit) at yourself could provide radiant heating. Be careful not to exceed the circuit limit, though, as those space heaters can be 1500 watts each.
Now for decor, how about some folding screens, perhaps with relaxing Oriental themes, to hide the ugly walls ? 22:27, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Pixies and Burt Bacharach
have they ever dueted? And what songs have they done? Thanks 18:41, 20 March 2006 (UTC) 86.137.0.202
Haha.. you're kidding, right? That'd be interesting to hear.. Frank Black screaming a dissonant love song over pretty piano chords? Ok, well at least as far as I know, the Pixies haven't ever collaborated with anyone, and I've got all their albums. (Although I think David Bowie wanted them to work with him) -- 19:19, 20 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
Actually they have dueted but the record is extremely rare. together they sang , i grant you it is strange to hear Frank Black singing it, but i suggest you check out , as i said it is a rare song and only seven sites came up for the seach. 19:29, 20 March 2006 (UTC)What the World Needs Now [33] Kingstonjr
Apparently, that was The , on the . -- 19:33, 20 March 2006 (UTC)Posies Austin Powers soundtrack BluePlatypus
[] edit Quote
I'd like to get some info added by someone who knows the answer. The quote "If you think education is expensive, try ignorance" is attributed all over the web to both Derek Bok and Andy McIntyre. There's plenty of info in Derek Bok as he is a faculty member at Harvard. There's nothing anywhere about Andy McIntyre - except the fact that the quote is attributed to him.
Who is Andy McIntyre?
Does the quote belong to him or Derek Bok?
What's the reference?
Does anyone know?
[] edit New article wont appear when searched.
I have created an article about a band called The Boxer Rebellion - but when I search for it using the search toolbar I just get a list of links that arent related to the band page that Ive created.
Why is this?
How do I make the page appear top of a searrch list?
Thanks!
This comment was added by ( ) 20:28, March 20, 2006 (UTC). unsigned 82.4.45.157 talk contribs
This kind of question should probably be on the , but I'll shoot off a quick answer anyway: The Wikipedia searchable index (which you're looking at when you search for an article) takes some time to update, usually one or two weeks (Wikipedia is !). Be patient - soon your article will appear on the list when you for "The Boxer Rebellion". Google also indexes Wikipedia, and is sometimes a bit faster - on the order of a week is average (). | 19:36, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Help desk big search search Wikipedia through Google QuantumEleven (talk)
I take it the band is named after the , which was a revolt by the Chinese against the colonial powers whereby they finally earned the right to wear either briefs or boxers. :-) 22:05, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Boxer Rebellion StuRat
[] edit Thomas Willhite, PSI Seminars
I've taken numerous PSI Seminars and would like to find more than just the company line on Thomas Willhite, the starter of PSI Seminars. I know some info on him, that he trained with Werner Erhardt in Mind Dynamics and he was from Milwaukee and started PSI in Cali. i know he died at a relatively young age in a plane accident on his ranch, and it's now run by his wife, Jane Willhite, his daughter Janessa Willhite and i know he has a son, tho i've never heard his name mentioned. i'd really like to know more about him, like your article on Werner Erhard was very helpful
thanks -- 20:04, 20 March 2006 (UTC) 146.137.57.34
[] edit transportation
I understand that each state has free transportation available for those people who have limited or no income. How do I find out about this in north Georgia? Thank you. diane farrel
This is different for every community on the planet. Your best bet is check the local office that does social assistance. Every town has something like this. -- 20:59, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Zeizmic
If you are in the US, then try asking at the welfare office or unemployment office. You could also call a local bus company. If you are in the former Soviet country of Georgia, I can't help you. 21:59, 20 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
It's common for rural and exurban counties without the population density for a real bus system to have a "demand-response" transit system. Basically, that means you call them up ahead of time, schedule a ride, pay them maybe a dollar or two, and they take you where you need to go. You can try calling your county's department of transportation. -- 00:42, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
[] edit Hal Holbrook
I'm trying to contact Hal Holbrook. I have a web lite I'd like him to see. He is a great Mark Twain enthusiast and I'm sure he could be of help to me.If you could help me or point me in the right direction I'd appreciate it. Thank You, John
[] edit Bad habits
Anyone got tips on how to rid yourself of a bad habit? In particular, chewing your parts of your body until they bleed. 20:45, 20 March 2006 (UTC) 64.198.112.210
Sadly, compulsive destructive behaviour (such as smoking) comes from low levels or imbalances in . Two most important for human behaviour are and . You can stop mild bad habits by a will-power or the yucky bitter stuff, but you can't stop a serious problem. For that you need some help from your doctor on the brain chemical aspect. -- 20:56, 20 March 2006 (UTC) neurotransmitters serotonin vasopressin Zeizmic
Maybe reading the article on might help. The article has a couple of links to other websites, too. 21:04, 20 March 2006 (UTC) self-harm Lupo
are pretty good for this kinda thing. -- 05:16, 21 March 2006 (UTC) SSRIs jpgordon
Find out why you do it first.I cut myself for years til I figured out why,then I could deal with it and stop.hotclaws**==
[] edit Ice Cream
How is Chapmans ice cream distributed and where do they distribute to?(What countries, cites etc.)
Hm. Google was not of much help. I suspect you could email them that question and get a pretty good answer.-- 21:28, 20 March 2006 (UTC) inks T
is unlikely to be exported from one country to another. (Keeping it frozen would be unnecessarily expensive.) But it might well be made locally under that name. -- 12:58, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Ice cream Shantavira
[] edit sports
Hello my faithful Reference Deskers, I have a question about soccer referees. What's the name of that woman who refereed games in the English football league? I think her name was Wendy something, but I'm not sure. I believe she used to do quite a bit of refereeing in the Conference, and was an assistant referee for a few professional games. Any helpers? Thanks so much -- 21:12, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Dangherous
Andi Regan? 21:29, 20 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
Wendy Toms. | | | 22:27, 20 March 2006 (UTC)
[] edit Technika
hi there i own a technika dvd2005 dvd recorder and i ma trying to register it however I am faced with a list of brands and technika is not there, the place i am doing this is an official site and was suggested by the actual hardware yet the brand name is not in the list. i can only assume that some other company owns or manufactures technika, plaese help. 21:18, 20 March 2006 (UTC) 86.137.0.202
What is the site that was suggested? 21:23, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
It was to register the product with DivX V.O.D. 9video on demand) so its at www.DivX.com/vod
[] edit NCAA Basketball Question!!!!!!!!!!!! Michigan State RIVAL?ASAP
??? Ililnois? -- 23:10, 20 March 2006 (UTC) anyone else of note??? thanks asazP! WoodscutterAveries
ASAP, eh? This wouldn't be for a pub quiz would it? 23:21, 20 March 2006 (UTC)  -- Run! 
I need to know
I'm not sure what your question is, but the article on might be helpful, even though it doesn't mention Illinois. The article on says that Illinois lost the championship match in 2005; Michigan State won in 2000.-- 23:33, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Michigan State University NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship Cadaeib
I'm pretty sure that Michigan State's biggest rival is the . -- 00:59, 22 March 2006 (UTC) University of Michigan Metropolitan90
Absolutely. 01:04, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Guettarda
Who wins in a knife fight the blood or crips? -- 23:35, 20 March 2006 (UTC) WoodscutterAveries
iuy
Please title your questions using a pair of equals (==) signs either side. -- | | | 23:42, 20 March 2006 (UTC) Slumgum yap stalk
Who cares? hotclaws**==
As long as there are fatalities, we all do. 17:43, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
[] edit DEVAS???
Hello,
My question is if devas existed how did they become extinct??? Or if they still exist how would you protect yourself??? Maybe even destroy an evil deva??
Jay Vega
Given that Devas are a theosophical concept relating to species-wide group intelligences or spirits then there are several possible ways to answer this:
If they have ever existed they still do and are not extinct.
If they do not exist now they never have.
If a particular species has a deva, then presumably the extinction of that species would also kill its deva.
Why would one be evil, and why would a person need to protect themselves from it?
These comments presuppose that you are not talking about . ... 06:31, 21 March 2006 (UTC) A city in Romania Grutness
It looks to me like you two are using different definitions of "devas". The questioner should include his definition, so we know what they mean. 11:05, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
is a disambiguation page listing several interesting possibilities. -- 21:01, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Deva WhiteDragon
[] edit birth records at Musoma catholic church
iwould like to get in touch with the Musoma catholic mission church, Tanganyika. B.E.A. for birth records of the year 1959. can you help?
Thank you
[] edit quiz
the first person to answer 2+2=? will win a prize... 05:40, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Im in ur house
Did i miss a trick??? 05:48, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
for sufficiently large values of 2. ... 06:26, 21 March 2006 (UTC) 2+2=5 Grutness
How do you get the following output using VB control structures?
#####                   ###                    #                   ###                  #####
This sounds like a homework assignment. 06:14, 21 March 2006 (UTC) The Jade Knight
And a rather silly assignment at that. I see no advantage to using a loop to produce such output. 11:00, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Programming assignments never make you do anything useful. It doesn't seem too hard to do, as long as you know how to use loops well enough. It probably wouldn't be too hard for me to whip up something like that... -- 15:25, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
I've had some useful programming assignments, like solving the quadratic equation. For loops, a nice basic bubble sort would be a good exercise. 15:43, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
A very ridiculous assignment ... here's one approach:
Dim strTemp$    Dim i%        For i = -5 To 5 Step 2        If (i = 1) = False Then            strTemp = strTemp & String((5 - Abs(i)) / 2, " ") & String(Abs(i), "#") & Chr(13) & Chr(10)        End If    Next i        Debug.Print strTemp
HTH () 01:00, 24 March 2006 (UTC) AmiDaniel Talk
[] edit Elevation of North Hollywood, CA
Please supply me with the elevation in feet above sea level of the city of North Hollywood, CA.
Thank you.
See or . 10:54, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Bob Hope Airport Van Nuys Airport CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Or, to be more precise, you could Google for "north hollywood" and "altitude", and you'd find a nice site that says the altitude is 613 feet (186 meters.) -- 15:12, 23 March 2006 (UTC) jpgordon
[] edit Ancient TV show
A double-barreled question about an ancient TV show I vaguely remember from when I was a wee kid.
There was a children's programme set (I think) somewhere like Croatia (would have been Yugoslavia back then) about a farm where lippizaner horses were bred (sort of an eastern European ). It would have shown on UK television about 1972-4. Can anyone tell me any details about what the programme would have been?Follyfoot
I was reminded about the programme by hearing a cover version of the theme music (a naff but endearing little ditty about flying away to a land of white horses) which sounded like it was done by someone like Aztec Camera or the Housemartins. Anyone know who it was by and what the title was?
... 07:51, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
Your dates a bit off but is what you are looking for. I rembember watching this. Also see . 09:07, 21 March 2006 (UTC) White Horses this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Well, that's the first part answered (thanks!). Now all I've got to do is find out who the cover of the theme is by, because it was definitely a male vocalist and 80s-ish soft-pop-rock version I heard with male vocals, and the original theme music was a folky female vocal version. ... 12:27, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
wha?
(now that I know the title!) This seems to have been covered twice - once by (not very Aztec Camera-y at all), and once by ( Aztec Camera-y). It will almost certainly have been TCS that I heard. ... 12:41, 21 March 2006 (UTC)Google is my friend All About Eve (band) Trash Can Sinatras very Grutness
[] edit Pic on a wikipedia page...
Sorry if this isn't the right place to ask but...
On this page below... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Lilith_%28John_Collier_painting%29.jpg
There's a picture I would like to use, and at the bottom it says...
"This image is in the public domain because its copyright has expired in the United States and those countries with a copyright term of life of the author plus 70 years or less. Subject to disclaimers."
Does that mean I can use it as the art for my band's demo? It won't be for commercial purposes. I'm just giving the demos out to specific record companies and a few people for free. I would like to have that on the cover and maybe the back too. Is this illegal? Or can I go ahead and do it?
Again, sorry if this isn't the right place to ask.
Thanks, Blake
Because it is in the , you can use it however you like, without restriction (at least in the US). However, this should not be construed as legal advice you might want to double-check and make sure it in the public domain now. 08:05, 21 March 2006 (UTC) public domain is The Jade Knight
You're in the clear using it, but you may want to find a higher-resolution or better quality version. A screen res image won't look very good printed at the same size. 22:39, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Night Gyr
[] edit cockroaches
i need 2 no wot the names 4 cockroaches gender (male or female) r, could u plz tell me, u can contact me at ((email address removed to stop sarah's mailbox suffering spamclog)) (dont mock me i got it wen i was 7).
kind regards- sarah truscott
P.s. excuse the msn typing. it is a habit i find hard 2 break
I'm sorry but I don't understand what you're asking for -- what's wrong with "male" and "female"? -- 11:23, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
PS Break it anyway.
I figure you could call them male and female cockroaches. Or give them individual names, like Jack and Jill. :) -- 15:48, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
No, we will not excuse your spelling. Surely, you do not do that at school or at work. Does Wikipedia deserve your respect any less? -- 16:52, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Nelson Ricardo
I find Nricardo|Nelson Ricardo very rude, just answer the persons question without making any comment on there typing skills. We are all humans and we all make mistakes otherwise it is inhuman! UNKOWN USER
As far as I know, non-social insects aren't given specific names for genders the way higher animals are. I suppose you could use the generic sire/dame appellations if for some odd reason you wanted to breed cockroaches... 21:14, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
[] edit Finding a list of 2006 NBA Roster Moves
I'm looking for a simple list of roster moves that have occurred in the NBA this season. Basically a list of who has been traded to what team since the beginning of the season. Where can I find this? 09:03, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Mysteriousinventors
This might be useful: 14:57, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Roster Update Guide Sum0
[] edit Research of informations
Dear Sirs, Dear Madams,
I am a student in Belgium and for the needs for my thesis; I need to find the number of invoices emitted (B2B) by sectors in Belgium and in the world. I made a lot of research but I have not been able to find anything. This is why I allow myself to ask you whether you had an idea of where I could find this information? Or whether you have this information?
I thank you in advance for your assistance.
I don't see how this could be knowable. My company generates many B2B invoices. The number we generate is our private information: it is not put in our annual report or accounts or anywhere else a researcher could check. This will be true of most companies. I think a major thesis in itself would be to devise a methodology to roughly estimate such a number. 10:41, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Notinasnaid
In a way it sounds like a good chewy . You could try approaching a range of businesses to see if they're prepared to release the information to you (however, this could well involve them having to systematically collecting the information in the first place so they might not be terribly keen unless you can demonstrate to them that the results of your thesis will somehow help them save lots of money). If you did manage to get a decent sample, you could give your estimates some statistical basis (though there are likely a number of biases involved), but I can't see any way you're going to be able to get an exact figure. -- 11:07, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Fermi problem Bth
Also note that "information" is already plural, so no "s" is added. 10:50, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Carmen Bernos de Gasztold
I am searching for the specific year of birth for accuracy for Carmen Bernos de Gasztold. Your site says 1919. Can you tell me how you received the information?
No. But I see from that article's history that it was added by . The best thing for you to do is ask this question on Aloysius's talk page (go to and ask there). ... 12:32, 21 March 2006 (UTC) User:Aloysius User talk:Aloysius Grutness
[] edit "Underpowered" pistols
What exactly makes a pistol be considered "underpowered"? It won't blow a hole through a house? hotclaws**==
If the goal is to kill someone, and it can't do that very effectively, like a 22 caliber pistol, then it's "underpowered" for the purpose intended. 15:53, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit What time is it?
In your home town? javascript:insertTags('-- 15:48, 21 March 2006 (UTC)',);-- 15:48, 21 March 2006 (UTC) WoodscutterAveries , WoodscutterAveries
It's -7 . 16:32, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Coordinated Universal Time CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
See -- 16:44, 21 March 2006 (UTC) http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/ Shantavira
"It's later than you think." 17:07, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Given that there's rubbish music TV on permanently at my work, the correct answer for me would appear to be: ! -- 17:09, 21 March 2006 (UTC) It's Chico Time Bth
I had decided to answer and suddenly it changed. Give me your watch and I'll give you the time it is. -- 18:28, 21 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
. It's hammertime. Doo, do-do doot can't touch this 21:10, 21 March 2006 (UTC)STOP  -- Run! 
Time to unpimp ze auto? 13:00, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
34-7664 74 minims past the arn of scampering---hotclaws**== Star date
The current date and time is . But I'm 6 hours behind UTC. -- 18:45, 24 March 2006 (UTC)T 02:13 17 February 2009 UTC Optichan
[] edit A death in Sierra Leone
I would like to know how I can find information on the death of Dr. Dane Michael from the Republic os Sierra Leone. I do not know the date! D. Hardin
Fortunately, it appears that Dr Michael died only in the fictions of Nigerian con-artists. Whether there was ever a real Dr Michael, and if so his state of health, remains unclear. 17:52, 21 March 2006 (UTC) [37] Mark your words
[] edit Ethnic background of population
I am looking for a source to find the approximate numbers of various ethnic background populations of New York, NY. The specific populations whose numbers I would like to ascertain:
Indian Bangladesh All Arab countries China Korea Japan Russia Jewish
Unfortunately doesn't seem to split things down beyond "Asian", but there are just over a million people who describe themselves as falling into that category. The US census is forbidden from asking compulsory questions on religious affilliation, so no info on the number of Jews from them, but produced by the Glenmary Research Centre shows it's high in that area. -- 18:06, 21 March 2006 (UTC) the New York census this map of the proportion of Jews in the population Bth
Actually, the census does collect data on "nationality." You should be able to find it at factfinder.census.gov. You won't find info on religion, though; the U.S. census doesn't record it. -- 00:26, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
Weird - we had a question recently on languages spoken in Britain. The UK census doesnt collect that but does do religion. The US does nationality but not religion. I wonder what the rationale for each approach is. 01:04, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
Public Law 94-521 prohibits the US Census Bureau from asking people about their religion. I don't know the rationale for that law, but I suppose some people think it's an invasion of privacy to ask about someone's religion. Considering the , you have to question whether information collected on religion is going to be accurate. Jedi census phenomenon
I'm surprised they don't count language speakers in the UK. I would think it would be very important for social services. Doesn't the government need to know how many AIDS brochures it needs to print in, say, Chinese? -- 01:25, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
You might poke around sociologist literature on New York -- there is quite a lot out there written about the ethnic/religious makeup of the city, and should give you rough numbers. -- 03:49, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
[] edit hotel/motel
What is the total number of hotel/motel rooms in the United States? Where can I find this information? I have "Googled" with no success. I'd be grateful for the answer. gil 17:34, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Ggarger
I think we may have another here... I doubt there is any reliable statistic for this, but you can certainly compute a good guesstimate. | 17:56, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Fermi problem QuantumEleven (talk)
You want the , which lists 4.4 million guest rooms as of year-end . 18:54, 21 March 2006 (UTC) American Hotel and Lodging Association 2004 Lomn
[] edit vs. Samuel Taylor Coleridge Iago
Samuel Taylor Coleridge describes Iago as a "" does anyonw know where this quote comes from? 18:09, 21 March 2006 (UTC)motiveless malignancy
Didn't you just answer your own question? Or are you asking where Coleridge wrote that observation? That'd be in his "Notes on Othello" (where else?) Available , among other places. -- 19:43, 21 March 2006 (UTC) here BluePlatypus
[] edit Singer on 3/18/06
I know this is a strange question, but I have looked everywhere! But, it is could you lease tell me who was the singer on 3/18/06....I remember she has 1 name. I think it began with a "S". If you could please help me, I would really appreciate it! My email is [removed to prevent spam] !!! Thank you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Frances-West Cook
[] edit Ditech Commercials
What is the Guys name is the Ditech commercials that always loses loans to Ditech?
I don't think the character was ever given a name, are you looking for the actor's name ? 20:23, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
It looks like the actor's name is . | 23:47, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Ron Michaelson User:Zoe (talk)
We have an article! 06:13, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Ron Michaelson KWH
[] edit canine breed
Looking for info on 1/2 German shephard & 1/2 doberman pincher pups
What kind of info are you looking for? Where to find them? What their temperment may be? How big they may be? Help us out here. | 21:34, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
[] edit two questions that have nothing to with one another
hello wikipedians from new york city to naples,Italy i have to questions that have nothing to do with one another the first is during a sale at a store when it is closing down like the one at seamans which is closing down what happens to that money. the second is did jfk ever travel to dallas before he was assinated on 11/22/63. answer ASAP please. please no pictures
For the first one, it depends on why they are closing down. If they decided to close down on their own, the money goes to the owners, after they have paid off their bills. If they were ordered to close down as part of a bankruptcy proceeding, there are very specific rules set by the court for which bills will be paid off and which will be left unpaid. Under such an order there is typically nothing left for the owners. 21:59, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
For the second one, I would imagine he also went to Dallas during his first Presidential campaign, but don't know specifically. 21:59, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
mentions it was President Kennedy's first visit to Texas (and thus Dallas), but that might be interpreted as meaning his first visit . -- 22:57, 21 March 2006 (UTC) This as president BluePlatypus
[] edit The definition of rig
Can someone please confirm that a partially castrated or one testicled horse or colt is in fact called a 'rig' as mentioned on the BBC by racing analyst Richard Pitman.
Apparently, not quite: 22:49, 21 March 2006 (UTC) [38] Mark your words
Yes this is a commonly used term for that kind of horse...hotclaws**==
Why would you want to partially castrate a horse anyway? Surely you either want it fully castrated or fully able to breed. 13:40, 23 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
It's when one testical fails to decend and thus the castration is incomplete.Was more common when vets were less well trained than they are now or it was done anyway by the owner.hotclaws**==
The castration is irrelevant. A horse with one undescended testicle is a rig, whether or not the other testicle has been cut off. 17:08, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Mark your words
[] edit COCO PUFFS in Toronto...
Hello, I moved to Toronto 6 years ago and before that I used to eat the cereal "Coco Puffs" which is made by General Mills all the time, but since I moved here I have not been able to find it in Toronto. General Mills does not distribute them in Canada, but I wanted to know if there are any specialty stores or something like that I could find it in. Thank you --() | 23:12, 21 March 2006 (UTC) Aytakin Talk
You might want to stock up the next time you visit the US. I imagine Niagara is the closest crossing point. There isn't any reason why they would block bringing them in for personal use, is there ? 23:39, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I've seen them in American ethnic food stores in Europe, don't know any in Toronto though. (That's right USians.. Oreo cookies and Doritos are your ethnical foods! :)) -- 23:26, 21 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
That is weird. Of course, most American foods can be found around the world, like hot dogs and Kentucky Fried Chicken. 23:39, 21 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Yes, but there are many other things that only you eat. Such as peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Or Fruit By The Foot. Being much more refined than you, there is much Americano food which we wouldn't touch with a bargepole... ;-) | 07:37, 22 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
I'm surprised you consider PB&J to be "unrefined". I would think you would pick something worse, like , especially when pre-sliced in little plastic wrappers for sandwiches. If you use natural peanut butter (not the stuff with hydrogenated oils added to make it solid) and a high quality jam on toasted wheat bread, you can have a tasty and healthy after-school snack with a glass of milk on the side. If it satisfies the kid's hunger and keeps them from eating candy, then it's a good alternative, I must say. Some foods from other countries, like "fish and chips", seems quite disgusting to me, especially when fused to the paper on which it is served. 20:28, 22 March 2006 (UTC) processed cheese StuRat
I guess that means you've never had a . And as for foodstuffs I'd gladly avoid at least until death, I will say only . -- 20:11, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Fluffernutter Vegemite LarryMac
Goody, all the more for me. I guess you have to have it in your blood from birth to really appreciate it. But I'll never understand why an American company bought Vegemite out, when the number of Americans who like it seems to be zero. 01:37, 25 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
[] edit Daisy Duke Rap Song
Hi Wikipedia:
Can you tell me if you know of the group and the song name that sang about the Daisy Duke shorts?
Some of the lyrics go like this....
"look at that girl with the Daisy Dukes on...." It was a big hit back in either the late 80's or early 90's when the Daisy Duke shorts were a big hit to wear.
Any help would be appreciated.
Lyn
[] edit daily calcium
how much calcium is in a cows daily output of milk in one day ?
A dairy cow might provide 20 liters of milk per day. Pasteurized milk has around 1,200 milligrams of calcium per liter. So a cow's daily output translate into 24 grams of calcium per day after pasteurization. -- 01:33, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
Surely pasteurization doesn't change the calcium content? -- 02:23, 22 March 2006 (UTC) BluePlatypus
Not every breed of milk cow produces the same amount of milk though, nor even every cow within a particular breed. The milk that you buy at the market may be made up of milk from 2, 3, or possibly more breeds. The milk from different breeds may not have the same amount of calcium per unit, I'm not at all certain. | 03:40, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
[] edit Search for Native Canadian
Dear Sir/Madam
Please can you let me know if there is anything written regarding a particular Native Canadian called 'He who runs with horses'? I believe he may of been here around the 1800's. I have done some research but to no avail. I know he belonged to the Shuswap tribe.
I would appreciate any information you may have or you know someone who may be able to assist.
Many thanks & kind regards
Maxine
[] edit How much of Microsoft does Bill Gates own?
I'm wondering if anyone would know or could tell me where to find the percentage of shares of Microsoft Corp. owned by Bill Gates.
Basically I'd like to know approximately how much of Microsoft shares Bill Gates owns.
I would expect to hear an answer somewhere in the range of 20% (as an educated guess) for how widely held corporations with controlling shareholders work, but I'd like some more concrete information.
Thanks to anyone who can help me!
Lewis 03:35, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Loomis51
billion shares outstanding, Billie owns of them. So 9.5% -- 03:50, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 10.33 977,499,336 BluePlatypus
It used to be much more of course. I believe he sells a tranch every quarter. I don't know whether his foundations currently own shares in addition to the 9.5%. 15:58, 29 March 2006 (UTC) 62.31.55.223
[] edit NYC Subway riders
I am trying to find out how many people ride the nyc subway system during the work week and how many use it on the weekends on average.
See . -- 05:51, 22 March 2006 (UTC) the MTA web site Metropolitan90
[] edit Can I write an article about the village where I live, even if I don't have published sources on it?
I am wondering if I can write an article for Wikipedia if I do not have published sources as references? I would like to write about my village, explaining when it was created, how many houses it has today, where it is located, etc. I have no intention of posting any opinions - just facts.
Victoria -- 04:53, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 216.55.193.65
Yes, you can. It's likely someone will add a "no sources" tag to it, asking that sources be added, but the article can remain in that state indefinitely 05:11, 22 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I'm actually not too sure, StuRat. There are two things that will prevent an article like that from surviving on Wikipedia:
Lack or sources, like you said (brochures on the city, I think, count as sources);
Lack of significance.
I'm actually going to say that this question is better suited for -- | 05:14, 22 March 2006 (UTC) The FAQ. JB Adder Talk
As I understand it, there is no policy that unsourced articles should be deleted. However, I can imagine a point way in the future (once, say, 90% of our articles are fully sourced), where such a policy might be decided upon. 05:37, 22 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
The article will continue to indefinitely, but it's likely that the unreferenced bits will be removed. 11:05, 22 March 2006 (UTC)exist Mark your words
Also, you may want to consider - is your village notable in some way? Not meaning to judge your village either way, but Wikipedia is "a neutral and unbiased compilation of notable, verifiable facts." (from ). Just something to think about. | 07:34, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia: Notability Wikipedia:Wikipedia in eight words QuantumEleven (talk)
Unless it's an extremely small village (population 1 ?), I would expect it to be notable to the entire population of the village, plus those who have visited it, live near it, know someone who lives there, etc. 12:52, 22 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Sources: in practice, nobody is probably going to complain if you don't cite sources. But it's definitely better to have published sources. Why don't you look if you can find some? Most municipalities/cities/counties publish some kind of brochure about themselves. Or there might a printed addressbook that has some kind of general information in the introductory section. Or the local newspaper might have published these facts at some point. The nearest public libary would be a good place to ask for help. -- Lack of significance/notability: Not an issue. We already have an article about every single village in the USA (at least if it is recognized by the census), and nobody has complained yet as far as I know. Since we're striving to be global, it would be good to have more articles about villages in other countries, too. -- 14:03, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Chl
In general, real places survive AfD, no matter how small. | 17:12, 22 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
What don't survive are people, no matter how great. Users always think that bios are some kind of vanity or copyvio even if they aren't and if Google sources are few. The big problem here is thatespecially
Google is definitely a perfect website and does not have all the records of a certain person; andnot
Usually famous people in "insignificant" countries don't have many weblinks, so their bios are always thought of as vanity articles.
Places, however, cannot write about themselves, and sources may well be plentiful, so you should have no trouble writing about your village (that is, unless some AfD maniac or racist chances upon your "vanity" place article and decides to delete it). 21:35, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 84.154.97.12
Nonsense. All you have to do is provide sources. | 02:48, 23 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
So, , did your bio get deleted, too? :-) () 02:53, 23 March 2006 (UTC) 84 Steve Summit talk
No, but articles I wrote about my some of my well-known countrymen were deleted or were being considered for deletion due to "lack of Google sources", "vanity", "incredibility", and a host of other absurd reasons. At first, I was like, hey, come on, I write articles about different people, and you think vanity? And then there was this racist who went on an AfD spree. It was real hilarious , but the articles that got deleted definitely didn't like it. ;) 06:01, 23 March 2006 (UTC)threethat'sper se 84.154.100.223
A village is almost certain to survive AFD - even if it's proposed for deletion there are several of us who go out of our way to improve any "real place" articles we see that are on afd - usually to the point where they're good enough to keep. ... 06:09, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
[] edit baby blues
why do parents that have multiple children ( twins, triplets etc) usually give their children names that sound the same. does it make it easier to remember? can you come up with a few examples? theodore and theodora, ken and kim, jenny and jimmy , candice and caprice -- 09:39, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Crazypinkster
Probably because they think it's "cute" or some other such thing. | 10:46, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
Among the families with twins I have known, more often the children did have similar-sounding names. I don't expect anyone in particular to take my advice, but I would recommend that parents of twins, or for that matter parents of more than one child of ages, choose names that sound reasonably different. This way, if you have to call them over to you by shouting their names, they will have a better chance of hearing you correctly. -- 02:52, 24 March 2006 (UTC)notdifferent Metropolitan90
Hi,
Can we advertise for tractors on this site??
Advertising is not allowed. See for more info. | 10:44, 22 March 2006 (UTC) What Wikipedia is not Dismas (talk)
[] edit PUSSY FART
A friend recently mailed me about an experience involving a "pussy fart". after some research i found out more or less what it is but whats the cause of it? does it happen to all females? is there a cure? i can only imagine that its really embarrassing! -- 12:02, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Crazypinkster
I can't believe we actually have an about this...yes, it's quite common, and no, it's not particularly embarassing. As the article points out, there is no odor connected with it, plus it usually happens during sex - and if you find normal bodily reactions during sex embarassing, you might face some pretty seriosu difficulties :) - 12:12, 22 March 2006 (UTC) article Ferkelparade
I'm not really surprised that there is an article about it but I was a bit surprised by the existance of a Latin term for it. And after having read the talk page for the article, I'm currently having an immature giggle over the singular film of the sub-genre, . | 13:12, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Amber, The Lesbian Queefer Dismas (talk)
[] edit How can I stop my hair getting tangled and knotty overnight?
nt
Have you tried braiding it? I've been told that works. What I do is put mine over the back of the pillow so I'm not laying on it. I think this works well for me because I don't toss and turn too much while sleeping. When down, my hair reaches down to my belt, in case you were wondering. | 13:29, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
Hmm... braiding it isn't really an option for me (I'm a guy, and my roommates already consider having long hair as feminine enough), and I toss and turn constnatly during the night, as well as sleeping on different angles. Thanks, though.
Then you can use some type of masculine rubber bands ("elastics", if you're a Brit) to secure your hair. (I suspect you aren't American, as we would normally say "How can I stop my hair getting tangled and knotty overnight ?".) 17:27, 22 March 2006 (UTC)from StuRat
Although this isn't the language desk, I just wanted to mention that the term "elastic" in place of "rubber-band" is not limited to British English. I heard it (and was confused by it) when my family moved to Connecticut when I was 12. -- 18:15, 22 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
I have shoulder length hair which I tie back with a plain hair band (that's a common commercially manufactured rubber band in a cloth sheath to keep it from snagging on the hair). My wife usually uses a couple of these spaced a few inches apart; her hair is longer and straighter, but tends more towards tangling. We both move around a bit in our sleep (more so for me). Unbound hair tends to get trapped under one another which is rather uncomfortable during any subsequent movement. 19:32, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 216.240.40.182
I'm a guy too and I know what you mean about getting a hard time about your long hair. I used to live in the South and it didn't go over well with some of the locals although I didn't care because I had more than a few lady friends who liked to run their fingers through my hair.  :-) I agree with using the hair ties spaced a few inches apart. I do this at work all the time. I work in a cleanroom so having my hair under the cleanroom suit without them gives me one huge knot by the end of the day. Although, as you said, you may get a hard time about this from your roommates. And please, do not use actual rubber bands. In case you didn't know, they're painful to pull out and damage your hair. | 22:35, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
When I don't braid it, I drop mine over the pillow through a gap in the headboard so it hangs down over the side of the bed (my headboard has a 6 inch slot running all the way across at matress level). My hair is fairly long, so even though I move around in my sleep it stays put and relatively untangled. But braiding is the best way in my opinion, and not particularly feminine. (Look at .) Can you ignore your roomates? 04:46, 23 March 2006 (UTC) this guy's braid Crypticfirefly
[] edit give it 2 me
my boyfriend and i enjoy foreplay b4 intercourse and when we do have sex he has an orgasm in less than 30 minutes. he is then so tired and is unable to satisfy me completely as his penis becomes flacid. how can we avoid this but stil enjoy 4play? any particular positions?
30 minutes is pretty good for a guy, you have nothing to complain about there. I suggest you get a dildo, if you need an erection for more than 30 minutes at a time. 14:24, 22 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
30 minutes is average, or even a little better. I'd suggest asking him to perform oral sex.
If you want more information, there are innumerable present in most libraries that might provide some useful suggestions; I have to agree with the general consensus here that maybe your foreplay should be a little more focussed on you than him, but there are all manner of ways that this can be done and you might have a lot of fun experimenting with some of the suggestions! By the way, if you meant 30 seconds instead of 30 minutes, you might find the page on contains some relevant information. -- 11:48, 23 March 2006 (UTC) sex manuals premature ejaculation Robert Merkel
[] edit user account: BOGDANOUD
Someone else is clearly using my account. I have not changed ANY articles. To stop this from happening in the future, I want the account to be locked or closed
NOTE: This may have something to do with the school network.
has made no contributions to Wikipedia. -- 15:28, 22 March 2006 (UTC) BOGDANOUD [39] Optichan
That's because the username is not written in all caps (hint to original poster: user names are case sensitive) - has indeed made some contributions, but none to the article namespace. Could you (the original poster) clarify why you suspect your account has been hijacked? -- 16:10, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Bogdanoud Ferkelparade
He has edited to say he's only used it once. Perhaps we should take a look at 80.249.52.137's contribs? -- 16:32, 22 March 2006 (UTC) User:80.249.52.137 Optichan
Change your password. By the way, how do you do this in Wikipedia? 16:41, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 208.61.138.229
You need to login to change a password. Then there will be a link at the top of the screen (if you're using the default MonoBook theme). I think it's possible that the original poster simply didn't log in to his account, so he saw messages directed to someone else on his talk page. -- 16:54, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Preferences Optichan
By the way, we should probably point out that such discussions on Wikipedia-related stuff should properly go on the  :P -- 16:57, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Help desk Ferkelparade
I think my account was hijacked because I have received several warnings saying that my rights to edit will be taken off. How can this happen when I have NOT edited a single article?
Hmm, I cannot see any warnings on your talk page...my best guess is that you were getting these warnings while you were not logged in. If you're editing from a school computer, everyone from your school who is not logged in will appear to be the same anonymous user on Wikipedia (because they all come in with the same IP address, and because not-logged-in users are only identified by their IP address), and so everyone from your school will get these vandalism warnings if only one person vandalized an article. If you did not vandalize any articles, you can safely ignore these warnings. (you might, however, be able to find out who is vandalizing Wikipedia from your school and try to convince them to contribute in a constructive manner instead :P ) -- 11:54, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Ferkelparade
Thanks. user: bogdanoud
[] edit carrs
hi, could you please find out for me if carrs sheffield England sterling silver flatware pattern bead is available this spring to buy.i read the arcticle on your website that carrs had created a non tarnish sterling silver. also is it considered real sterling. i appreciate your information and time sincerely, barbara
The best place to go will certainly be Carrs own website. The easiest way to get to this is to use a search engine - Google is a good choice. Follow , type "Carrs" into the search box (without the quotes) and press . Look down the list until you find Carrs of Sheffield. 18:43, 22 March 2006 (UTC) this link Google search DJ Clayworth
[] edit ringtones
Does anyone know of any website where i can download free polyphonic ringtone onto my computer and then transfer them to my mobile using my mobile software. My phone is the samsung d600
yes, UAE mobiles.com
[] edit census data on Working Immigrants and unemployed Americans in Boston
I am looking for where i can find census data of the number of immigrants that have come into Boston, who have work permits, as well as the number of unemployed Americans in Boston.
I'm guessing if you find 5% immigrants and 5% unemployment you will assume there would be 0% unemployment if immigrants were banned. That's just not the case. Many people are unemployed because they lack the needed skills the immigrants have or refuse to do the hard work it takes to hold jobs which immigrants will gladly do. 18:38, 22 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Who discovered and/or named the Otter? Who discovered and/or named the North American River Otter?
There are 2 questions
Do your own homework. Read the article. 00:28, 23 March 2006 (UTC)marak24 otter Marak24
[] edit Help with decryption
Hi I got a letter which was written in Vigenere code and I can't decipher it. I dont know who the sender is, but I managed to decode some paragraphs by the use of a key included in the letter. However I can not decode the other paragraphs and the key works not with these, so I want to ask if anybody can help me with this. The other question is that the key for the other paragraphs is "kqaiyawikqeqc" and seems not to be the name of a person or place or thing. Can anybody help with this? Many thanks.
lprjalwsbqpoawafesesexjgmbwvpvkpeiibyqqwbuiyiohqmumqlqbrehzyqldmrwkecbtphkqtahmavrstsmxsggkgzqezdeljvyqhzbuibrpznwwaywg
Well, using a suitable Vigen re key of length 13, the beginning reads:
thefollowingmessagehasbeenencryptedtwicethemiddlesectionshouldbedecryptedfirstusingthiskeywordandthenwiththepreviouskey.
Does that help? 13:52, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Blotwell
Thank you very much! Also, may I know what the key for the beginning is?
Wasn't supposed to be a on ? The Police Cops fictional television show The Simpsons
I'm pretty sure it is. Do you have a source that says otherwise? -- 21:55, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
I checked so many times that I thought I would ask you guys. -- 23:20, 22 March 2006 (UTC) 2007 in television Senor Internet 12.18.90.163
I just put the {{references}} tag on that page. Those show names sound mighty suspicious. | 02:52, 23 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
[] edit Can you help me
Hello, I wonder if you can help me out, There was a mini series on TV many years ago based loosely on Dennis Allen and the pettingal family in Melbourne. Can you help me find the name of it and where can I get a copy of it, if available. -- Kind regards Ian Tippet.
I don't have an exact answer, but there is a list of TV series at the bottom of the article ; perhaps something there will look familiar. There was a book published about (note spelling), called , but near as I can tell it has not (yet?) been made into a mini-series. There was a mini-series , which seems to have dealt with similar topics and figures who may have been peripherally connected to the Pettingill family. -- 18:07, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Crime in Australia Kath Pettingill The Matriarch: The Kathy Pettingill Story Blue Murder LarryMac
[] edit Administrator request
Would somebody who is an Administrator be so kind to delete file ! The better version is on , this one is unnecessary. Thanks! 22:32, 22 March 2006 (UTC) Image:Dragonlord_logo.gif Image:Dragonlord_logo.jpg Death2
Done. If you look at you will see that there's a speedy deletion tag. 00:16, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Images and media for deletion CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Editing a picture
See . | 00:39, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Picture tutorial Dismas (talk)
[] edit How to create an article
Stupid question, I know, but I need to ask since I can't find the answer anywhere...
See . | 00:40, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Your first article Dismas (talk)
[] edit Ancient Olympic Races
I have been told that in the ancient olympic games that in the running events - each runner was given the same distance yet they were given a different path or course to follow. The winner was determined by the first to complete his course. Is this true? Can anyone confirm or deny that for me. Thanks for your help.
I can't answer your question about the different courses, but I can give you a nice trivia tidbit and tell you that they all competed completely naked. - 05:12, 23 March 2006 (UTC) zappa
[] edit Wikipedia Pageviews
Is there a way to find out which wikipedia pages are most viewed daily? Thanks in advance! 01:31, 23 March 2006 (UTC)marak24 Marak24
Not really. There's an about this. SInce there are several hundred web servers serving up cached copies of Wikipedia articles in parallel, it'd be quite a bit of work to collate the statistics, and evidently the developers don't feel like it's worth it (nor do I blame them). Although for what it's worth, there is at least one attempt at a most-viewed-pages list . () 02:42, 23 March 2006 (UTC) FAQ list entry here Steve Summit talk
[] edit Species of penguin used in the Coat-of-Arms for the Arturo Prat Antarctic Naval Base
Dear Sir,
I collect penguins on worldwide postage stamps. Chile issued a commerative stamp in February 1997 to Celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the Arturo Prat Antaractic Naval Base. (Scott #1204-05). There is a Coat-of-Arms included on the issue. Can you tell me what species of penguin is on the Coat-of-Arms? - - ~ ~ ~
Can you provide a picture ? 09:40, 23 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Googling for "Arturo Pratt Naval Base" gave me picture of the coat of arms, but I don't know what species of penguin that is meant to represent... 09:53, 23 March 2006 (UTC) this Ferkelparade
I believe the distinctive white areas on the sides of their necks makes them . Those white areas on the neck aren't very apparent when they stretch their heads up, as in the pics in our article, but can be seen at this web page, especially on the two bottom pics: . The other penguin species native to Antarctica is the , but they have yellowish-orange areas on the sides of their necks. 10:31, 23 March 2006 (UTC) adelie penguins [40] emperor penguin StuRat
[] edit PC-to-Cellphone SMS?
Is there some way I can send an SMS from my PC to an Australian cellphone for free? I remember ICQ Lite used to this long ago, but it appears it doesn't now.
You can send SMS to any Mobile across the Globe using the Yahoo Messenger Service. This works with Most GSM, TDMA, and CDMA Providers. Please check with the recipient s mobile Provider, because they might be charged for that.
Not "any Mobile across the Globe." Yahoo Messenger can not send to Sprint PCS users in the US, for example. There is an . -- 15:11, 23 March 2006 (UTC) official list of supported carriers LarryMac
There are email-to-cellphone services that let you send email to an address like phonenumber@somethingorother.com and the email gets forwarded to the phone via SMS. If you know the recipient's provider you can use a vendor-specific address (e.g. phonenumber@sprintpcs.com), otherwise there are generic services that somehow figure out which provider a given phone number belongs to and route it accordingly. () 17:46, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Steve Summit talk
Why not just try and use your regular email client? MS Outlook (not Outlook Express) works with number@txt.bell.ca fine. 17:53, 23 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Queen Victoria Golden Jubilee
I am in Canada. My Husband from High Wycombe, recently passed away. Found in possession a commemorative medal issued in Chepping Wymcombe, 21st June - looks like a VC but with picture of Queen Victoria front centre. Mayor listed as George Wheeler. Question: Was there a bar and ribbon with the original issue as with an actual VC. I am trying to validate this piece of history. By the way, excellent information on Queen Victoria which I have read with enthusiam. So glad to have found you.-- 06:57, 23 March 2006 (UTC)Melanie Rogers 66.222.192.35
is it one? You need to scroll down to see all the pictures. 07:09, 23 March 2006 (UTC) this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Or is it more like . None of them so far look like they would have space for the mayors name. 07:19, 23 March 2006 (UTC) this CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
If the medal was issued by a Mayor or a town then it is unlikely to be a VC, these are made by the Jewellers Hancocks of London & won't say issued by anyone on them (except possibly for issued by the Army or Crown). 13:52, 23 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
I didn't read it properly. It "looks like a VC" so the medal would not be a round jubilee medal but would look more like this but with Victoria's head on it instead of the lion. Melanie, are there any other words on it besides the mayors name. Also you might want to try and email somebody listed there. They might have some information or know where to find it. 16:43, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Chepping Wycombe CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Peer to Peer and Client server
Would someone please help me in answering my question which is, in Peer to Peer networks, can someone say on computer A access their work on a different computer? like in Client server? and what is the main difference between Peer to Perr networks and Client servers and what is remote acees and Modem sharing.
Thank you
You can read all about the and models through our wonderful Wikipedia articles. If you still have questions then, or there is a specific concept you want to ask more about, come back and we'll do our best to help you. | 11:44, 23 March 2006 (UTC) peer-to-peer client-server QuantumEleven (talk)
Which network has more security and privacy? h=whci network is best used for a company that has 8 computers but each have a different purpose with different databases?
[] edit sex percent?
At any given time, what si the average percentage of adults in the world engaged in sexual intercourse? I'd hazard a guess at about 0.03%. Any stats out there? Cheers, you wonderful ppl. -- 10:41, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Knotted
That estimate seems rather low to me, being about 3 minutes out of every week for every adult. I would expect it to be, maybe, 10x higher than that, even taking into account those adults who aren't sexually active. Also note that the estimate would be even higher if you had asked "engaged in sexual relations", rather than "intercourse", due to the many sexual activities other than intercourse. 11:33, 23 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit What is 'Estrogenic' and 'Mastogenic' Food/Herbs?
What is 'Estrogenic' and 'Mastogenic' Food/Herbs? Please Name some of them, (the common ones) and their potency?
I wonder which ones enable students to do their own homework. 11:36, 23 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I am not a student...it is a question out of interest
Found : for [definition]. ( seconds). Some of the first answers include the term "Herb". Guess where ? -- 20:37, 24 March 2006 (UTC)671,000Estrogenic0.20 DLL
I think he's trying to tell you to go do a www.google.com search. 23:47, 24 March 2006 (UTC) [41] StuRat
[] edit Search does not show my article
I wrote an article on an author 'Hyatt Verrill'. I think that I did everything correctly and the page can be found using alphabetic search but if you type his name into the search tool the result is not obvious. How do I ensure the result comes up as a 100% match in the search engine?
newby thanks
This comment was added by ( ) 13:11, March 23, 2006 (UTC). unsigned Frizzled talk contribs
I presume you're talking about ? You will find him if you type his name exactly into the search and click "Go", but you'll have to wait a bit before finding him through "Search" - the wiki index is huge, and it takes the system several weeks to update it. Be patient, your article appear on there soon! | 13:18, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Alpheus Hyatt Verrill will QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit Career Oppurtunities...
hii..... I am looking this for a friend actually.....i would like to know the career opportunities in India if someone does economics honours.... I'll appreciate any help...!! Thanks a lot!!!!!! 18:31, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
[] edit Prince of Spain
please tell me more about the prince of Spain felipe (I put a heading to it... 19:05, 23 March 2006 (UTC)) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
[] edit translation software
I noticed that the Wikipedia website can be translated into Polish. Many translation software packages do NOT include Polish, so I was wondering if anyone knew how this was accomplished. I am assisting in a project, part of which entails translating a medical research site from Polish to English.
I would greatly appreciate any information on this subject.
Thanks,
Advocate
Although users can take inspiration from articles in other language versions of Wikipedia, articles are usually written independently in each language and not translated. Machine translations are horibly unreliable anyway. -- 19:53, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Nelson Ricardo
[] edit Will Shortz
Will Shortz, the fabulous puzzle maker, is an idol of mine. I am interested im making sudoku puzzles, and wonder if I can get some tips from him. If you have any way I can contact him, e-mail preferably, that would be great!
Thank you so much Wikipedia!
Frankly, I have to doubt that he's going to drop his other projects to write out a set of tips for you. You might use your one-time 14-day free trial of Times Select to read by Shortz about Sudoku on the website, to see if it has suggestions. Our article on has an external link to a website, so maybe you could develop your basic technique there and defer querying Shortz until you need help with the fine points. this article Times Sudoku "Let's Make Sudoku"
If you really want to try to reach Shortz: I've dealt with other people at the , whose email addresses were in the format wshortz@nytimes.com or shortz@nytimes.com, so one of them might work. 10:12, 24 March 2006 (UTC)Times JamesMLane
   t c
[] edit Deleting an uploaded file
How can I delete a picture that I uploaded? I accidentally put it up for public domain and I don't want it up anymore.
While the picture could be deleted as it's already in the public domain I'm not sure that would help. If someone has reused it on a web site I don't think there is much you can do about it now. 20:56, 23 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
I want to delete it anyway. Could you tell me how?
You seem to have uploaded several. Some of which all look the same except fot the name. You can't delete it as you're not an admin but if you tell me which one I'll check it out. 21:47, 23 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
I don't want any of them up anymore. Could you please take them down?
It seems the reason several of them are the same is because he's replaced them with other images. Did you see his picture of a dragon/gun? -- 22:37, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
If you uploaded it and want it deleted, edit the picture header (click the "Edit" button) and add {{db-author}}. An admin will come along and delete it for you. | 08:56, 24 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit Peeling Shrimp
Can anyone tell me if there is a machine designed to peel shrimp? If so how does it work? Will it peel popcorn shrimp? Thanks WSC
I would assume there would have to be an industrial process for it based on the volume of shrimp sold in the world. Our article doesn't give the answer, and our most detailed article on shrimp, doesn't either, but the external links and sources there may provide your answer. The author of the latter article may know too, so consider asking on his talk page. You may also know there is a curved plastic spike you can get that is useful when peeling and de-veining by hand. - 23:50, 23 March 2006 (UTC) shrimp shrimp farm Taxman
Talk
I thought it was hand-peeled overseas with cheap labor. 05:03, 24 March 2006 (UTC) The Jade Knight
There are several companies in the U.S. that produce shrimp peeling machines for processor and restaurant use including Gregor Jonsson, Inc. and Prawnto. There are also several companies abroad, including ones from Taiwan and Iceland. Gregor Jonsson's website, with pictures and a machine description, is <>. http://www.jonsson.com/
[] edit Are buildings protected works?
We are used to the concept of intellectual property when it comes to books, movies, music, etc., but what protects architecture, if anything? I suppose the blueprints are copyrighted by the architects, and I further suppose that an IMAGE of a building can be copyrighted, or tradmarked if used in a logo, but is there any other protection? Let's say I want to build an office building, and I decide to copy the Transamerica Pyramid. Can anyone stop me? 21:21, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
This website is rather helpful: . Anything created after 1990 is subject to copyright protection, but not anything built before, so if you chose to, copying the would not violate copyright law.  01:39, 24 March 2006 (UTC) US Copyright Office FAQ Transamerica Pyramid TheKMan talk
Does copyright of the architecture prevent legally taking an image of a building? I seem to remember that it doesn't, except perhaps of the interior. 01:51, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
I dunno about the US, but in the UK it doesn't. (The same is true for sculptures, models of buildings, and "work[s] of artistic craftsmanship", whatever they are.) -- | 02:02, 24 March 2006 (UTC) [42] AJR Talk
In the US, only the actual building and plans are copyrighted. However, this is not the case for all countries. From : Commons:Licensing
For a picture of the interior of a building, note that the architect may hold some rights if distinct architectural features are shown (this is true at least in Germany).
For a picture of the exterior of a building, note that the architect may hold some rights; in some countries, this only applies if the picture was taken from a non-public place (Germany, Austria), but in some others this applies wherever the picture was taken from (France).
Hope this helps!  03:45, 24 March 2006 (UTC) TheKMan talk
That helps a great deal. The circular on the Paten Office site is fascinating, at least to a nerd like me. Thanks! 13:35, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
The concepts exists in France, and you can go to the courts if someone uses a photograph of your property (house, boat, ...) for a commercial use and this causes real "trouble" to your rights :
"Seule l exploitation commerciale de l image du bien d autrui est susceptible d tre contest e ; la cour de cassation exige de surcro t que l exploitation de l image du bien porte un trouble certain au droit d usage ou de jouissance du propri taire" [43]
[] edit Word Problem
Hello. I have been trying to think of a term for the past few days and it is bugging the heck out of me. What is the term when lets say you have a box of tissues and you say "I want a Kleenex." Its like when everyday things take on the name of a "Name brand" Item. If anyone could help it would be greatly appreciated. 22:53, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Zach
. -- 23:01, 23 March 2006 (UTC) Generic trademark Sam Pointon United FC
[] edit mac os emulator
there is a mac os emulator?? (like there is a snes emulator, DOS emulator...)
There are emulators like and , but I strongly doubt that there is an independent implementation of . 00:31, 24 March 2006 (UTC) PowerPC CherryOS PearPC Mac OS Keenan Pepper
[] edit Wikipedia articles locked for editing
On average, how many Wikipedia articles are locked at any given time? I understand the reasons behind such decisions (repeated vandalism, et cetera) but am just trying to understand how many of the 1,000,000+ articles are locked at any given time. Thanks in advance, Dennis in Colorado 00:05, 24 March 2006 (UTC) 72.174.12.134
There are and pages 00:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) 43 locked pages 29 semi-locked  -- Run! 
Y'all are amazing in your quick responses to questions. Thanks very much. Dennis in Colorado.
We should have an informal competition for who can provide a real solid answer to a given question in the shortest time. I thought my eight minutes above was impressive, but this six-minuter suitly emphazi's Run!'s ability. -- 03:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Sam Pointon United FC
Agree that was impressively quick. Perhaps a travelling trophy that stays either with the person with the current quickest answer or the quickest answer of the week. Although a better trophy might be for the person that creates or expands the best article out of an answer for the reference desk. Or a super trophy to the editor that creates a legitimate, referenced article as the first answer to a question. That would take the cake. - 04:24, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Taxman
Talk
I'm not sure about the speed of reply as there are too many question that can be answered by saying "see our article on x" or saying "look at all the google results". I like the second idea better. 05:25, 24 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
The 43 protected isn't quite right. There are subcategories too, including several hundred pages that have been protected to prevent recreation of previously deleted material. 18:51, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Night Gyr
[] edit March 24
[] edit Contacts/address for GHQ Rawalpindi Pakistan
Hi I am an ex-army officer here in Canada, I need to send my resume/latest qualifications to army GHQ in Pakistan in particular to a Directorate dealing with retired army officers, can you please give me fax or email address for GHQ-- Thanks Khan
The Pakistan Army's website is at but currently their server seems to be down. -- () 20:51, 25 March 2006 (UTC) http://www.pakarmy.gov.pk/ Arwel talk
[] edit dc universe question
i saw here () that in The End of Time in dc universe, the dc universe will be "destroyed" (i don't remember what comic shows this) and after this the Time will loops around to its own beginning. (Flash v2 #141). So my question is, if the dc universe will loops backs, after looping back for the first time, what will occur in the year of the marvel versus dc things [since only dc universe will loops back, so the marvel universe will be in a very far future, and since that ultramega-gods that created dc and marvel are friends now (since the multiverse where those gods are didin't looped back) they will not try to make a war between those 2 universes] http://dcu.smartmemes.com/
[] edit A Good Reference Desk Question?
What is an example of a good reference desk question? What are the general suggestions for a good reference desk question? 02:50, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Vertigociel
I thought this was a fairly good question: [44]
Specifically, it included enough info for us to find the answer, including the countries/regions in question, yet wasn't so obvious that they should have been able to figure it out themselves. It also didn't appear to be a homework question. 03:45, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I changed the example question on to that. Now maybe people will ask that instead of the Hitler one. =P 04:00, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Wikipedia:Questions Keenan Pepper
Cool, now we will have endless penguin questions instead. 12:42, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Yes, penguins are hot! That's why the sea-ice is melting nowadays. -- 19:46, 24 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
(That was the original one. =P) 05:21, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
[] edit Single mothers in Canada in the 1900's
What was it like to be a single mother back in the 1900's? Were they shunned by their families and community? What happened to the child, was abortion or adoption an option? Also, what was the typical marriage age and were the marriages arranged by the parents or were they allowed to marry whomever they wanted? If they did have the child, were the mothers allowed to work and if so where would they typically work and how much would they get paid? After they had a child out of wedlock, would they be able to get married?
Do you mean 1900-1909 or 1900-1999 ? If you meant the later, things changed dramatically in that period, so no one answer will do. 03:34, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Evil, evil RPG games
What are some RPG video games that either allow the player to choose to be really really evil or have an evil evil protagonist on an evil evil quest for world/galactic/universal domination? ie. evil and megalomaniacal. There's the series, series, and to an extent series. What others? -- 04:54, 24 March 2006 (UTC) KotOR Baldur's Gate Neverwinter Nights |||||! U T C M E Chugoku Banzai
The series, , and, to a lesser extent, all come to mind. and are from some of the same designers as and . - 05:38, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Fallout Planescape: Torment Fable The Matrix Online FalloutPlanescapeKOTORBG Sean Curtin
Played all except Fable. Lacked . :( Just how evil do you get to be in Fable? :D -- 06:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) megalomania |||||! U T C M E Chugoku Banzai
Not quite an RPG, but would count? You get to be an evil GOD! | 08:53, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Black & White QuantumEleven (talk)
How about the series ? 12:20, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Grand Theft Auto StuRat
If mmorpg count there is you can kill everyone depending of the place that you are [there is a "world", that is the almost same of the of another but you cant kill players there, (in the other "world" if kill in the cities a guard that do instant kill will appear]. ultima online
Oblivion certainly allows you to become a Master Thief and the worlds top assassin. 13:05, 30 March 2006 (UTC) SanderJK
[] edit left handed? ambidextrous?
I use my right hand for writing and for pulling the trigger during range practice, but my left hand for everything else. Am I left-handed, or ambidextrous, or...? | 05:02, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Kimchi.sg Talk
You're left handed. I pick up baseball/cricket bats, hockey sticks, guitars etc left handed but everything else I do right handed. My litte sister is completely left handed except when she plays darts which she does right handed. 05:17, 24 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
It depends really with which hand you used when you learnt the stuff... when we are small we just start learning stuff with whichever hand we feel comfortable... but i'd say you are mostly left handed..... 05:26, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Jayant, 17 Years, India contribs
I think it depends on how much you use each hand. These days, most people tap at keyboards more than they write, so the writing hand is probably less prominent that it was before. That probably makes you a left-hander with some right-handed quirks. But if you write for your living, and write in long hand, then this would make you a right-hander with some left-handed quirks. Either way, you're not totally one or the other. But I'm very curious - were you naturally right-handed with writing, or was this forced upon you by school or parents? I've heard of people having quirks with certain things, but not with handwriting. 06:42, 24 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
You sound . I'm the same - write and play tennis with my left hand, but I use scissors and bat right handedly, but I prefer my left foot for kicking, yet my right foot is more dextrous for ball skills. My picture should probably appear in the cross dominance article for illustrative purposes. -- 11:57, 24 March 2006 (UTC) cross-dominant Sam Pointon United FC
Remember too that handedness is not a polarity but an axis. You can be left- or right-handed just as easily as you can be left- or right-handed. (I, for example, write and play guitar right-handedly but usually use "strength tools" like screwdrivers and canopeners with my left. I can also play darts equally badly with either hand). ... 11:12, 25 March 2006 (UTC)predominantlytotally Grutness
wha?
There was a study done once about handedness, and the results showed that left-handed children who were forced to become right-handed had more trouble thinking, developed dyslexia, and had more mental problems than normal left- or right-handed people. This shows that handedness is not something caused by the environment but is already programmed into our brains at the time we are born. If this handedness is forcibly reversed, communication problems of some sort arise between the two halves of the brain. 12:31, 25 March 2006 (UTC) 84.154.127.26
[] edit greece
this dictionary does not tell me what types of things can be exported from Greece help please ! thanks
Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, not a dictionary. Does answer your question? 05:41, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Economy of Greece Keenan Pepper
Also see . 06:05, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Greece#Economy Theshibboleth
[] edit Adding Links
I just entered the subject heading called . There are a few terms used that I would like linked to other articles in Wikipedia. How do I do this? Don RobertsQuantum Reality
Your article is at not Quantum Reality. I suggest you read the articles that someone posted links for on for instructions on how to do things on Wikipedia like making links. | 06:03, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Quantum idealism your talk page Dismas (talk)
[] edit Websites for issuing a hacker challenge?
What websites are there where you can issue a challenge to hackers/crackers to hack into a site? (It's for a newspaper article.) 05:59, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Theshibboleth
See . -- 06:14, 24 March 2006 (UTC) honeynet |||||! U T C M E Chugoku Banzai
I don't think that's what I'm looking for. 07:14, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Theshibboleth
You could try making a webpage describing your challenge, and then submitting the link to various news sites, like and . You'd have to offer some kind of reward, though, to get people's attention. 18:54, 24 March 2006 (UTC) slashdot digg Night Gyr
[] edit cracking nuckles
I was always told not to crack my muckles because it would give me arthritise ( ithink that is how you spell it) is this tru or is it just a lie to stop me from cracking them? if it is true can you please explain to me how is causes arthritise.
Many thanks
According to , , , and our own marvellous article on , the link between cracking your knuckles and arthritis is a weak one. However, it probably won't do you much good, either. this this this cracking joints
(plus, it's annoying to other people... ;-) ) | 08:51, 24 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit Difference between bottled and canned beer
I know a lot of people who wont touch canned beers preferring bottled ones. Whats the difference between the two anyway, content-wise? And also where would draft (keg?) beer fit in all this? Thanks you! 09:47, 24 March 2006 (UTC) 83.5.184.116
I don't think the content is any different. The fear is that the beer reacts with the metal can and absorbs a metallic flavor. This can't happen with glass. At least beer makers don't put it in plastic bottles, which seem to leach toxic chemicals into the liquid (this is why bottled water expires). 12:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
They sell plastic bottles of beer at sporting events in the US... I've never had one, but I've seen many of them at ball games. 13:41, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Brian Schlosser42
Beer in plastic bottles is quite a commonplace thing in Poland and middle/eastern European countries [from Poland all the down to Bulgaria and Romania], especially in large markets [think Tesco, Geant and the like]; they're usually cheap, sometimes imported, 1,5-litre bottles sold in six-packs like mineral water. Have never tried them, but I can imagine the experience is less than interesting if you're a beer lover. As for the question, there is no difference between canned and bottled beer, ingredient-wise, it's mostly about the packaging and environmental stuff. My preference is glass, because really - the beer does not interact with it. 16:30, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Ouro
Another reason to dislike cans is how the tab is pushed down into the beer, thus polluting the beer with whatever was on the outside of the can. This can be addressed by washing each can before opening, but that's a pain. 12:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Keg beer fits into the can category to me, although with larger volume-to-surface area ratios and shorter shelf lives there is less opportunity for it to acquire a metallic taste. 12:11, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
About 10 years ago there was a wee spate of poisonings because people had drunk beer out of the bottles & the bottles had previously been pissed on by rats so folk got a disease. That could be one reason agains bottled beer (or at least drinking directly from the bottle). 12:39, 24 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
I heard that, but about cans. With bottles the beer should never be polluted by rats pissing on the outside, unless you wrap your lips on the stem below the point which was covered by the cap. In cans, anything on the tab ends up in the beer and the person's lips go on the top and part of the side of the can, as well. 14:06, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Read and also think about the phrase . 14:13, 24 March 2006 (UTC) this Urban Legend CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
That article does say that and can both be passed on to humans from animals in this way, although they know of no specific instances, and they add that human handlers may also have contaminated the cans with other transmissible diseases. They then echoed my advice to wash off the top of the cans before opening them. One thing in that article didn't make sense to me, though; they said that cardboard containers would protect cans from rat urine. Those boxes have lots of holes in them and urine could soak through, in any case. Other cans come in plastic six-packs, with the tops fully exposed. 14:33, 24 March 2006 (UTC) hantavirus leptospirosis StuRat
Bottled, canned and keg beer are almost always filtered and pasteurised, killing the yeast and terminating the natural reactions that were going on. (There are few exceptions in bottled beers; these are all "lumpy"). British beer drinkers frequently claim that only cask conditioned beer is worthwhile. This is kept alive in a barrel, continuing its reactions until the moment it is poured. (Lumps are allowed to settle in the barrel and shouldn't make it to the glass). This is unusual outside the UK, and in some areas is hard to find even the UK. British beer drinkers frequently assert too that it should be served warm, so you can taste it, rather than ice cold. "Warm" is an oversimplification: what is meant is traditional cellar temperature, perhaps 8-12 C. So I will claim: canned, bottled, kegged: if it's ice cold it could be any old rubbish but you won't taste it so it doesn't really matter. 12:44, 24 March 2006 (UTC)within Notinasnaid
To claim that bottled beer is "almost always" pasteurized is an exaggeration. In fact, there are hundreds of produced in the U.S., as well as some of the most famous beers of Europe. Most of these have a minimal amount of yeast that settles to the bottom of the bottle, and does not cloud the beer significantly. 12:16, 25 March 2006 (UTC) bottle-conditioned beers Dforest
[] edit DANDRUFF!
I wash my hair regularly but i'm still plagued by the itchy monsters. i'm notsure what causes it and is there any way i can get rid of it? my mom says it is cuased by leaving my hair wet after swimming or just putting condition to my hair in the morning. it has become a real problem now as it sometimes it keeps me out of sleep as i end up scrathing most of the night. whats the best why to get rid of it?
thanks guys! -- 10:35, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Crazypinkster
Some things to watch out for:
You might be allergic to chlorine, in which case you should always take a shower after swimming, and possibly try shampooing, too, to remove the chlorine from your scalp.
Always be sure to fully rinse all the shampoo out of your hair. Any left in can cause flakes directly or irritate the scalp and cause it to flake and itch.
The oils on the scalp are removed when you shampoo, so a conditioner is needed to replenish them. Don't use a combined shampoo/conditioner, that just doesn't work. Shampooing less often would also help, but might not be an option, as if you swim in chlorine filled pools regularly.
If you are on a low fat diet, that will reduce the oil produced by your skin and scalp. Eliminating most animal fats is fine, but unsaturated fish oils and vegetable oils are quite healthy, so you should consider consuming more of those, such as olive oil.
You could have a vicious cycle going where the itching causes you to scratch, which irritates the scalp, which causes it to flake, which causes it to itch more, which starts the cycle over again. In that case, perhaps you need to use a shampoo with , , or another local anesthetic to stop the itching, and thus break the cycle. menthol eucalyptus
Try alternating use of T-Gel and Neutrogena T-Sal with every other shampoo. I must warn you, though, the T-Gel smells like tar and the T-Sal stings. Neutrogena
If none of this works, see a , you may have a medical condition, such as or , especially if the dandruff is isolated to one area. dermatologist psoriasis dermatitis
11:44, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Also try dandruff shampoos which contain or . If you're already using one of those, try switching to the other. 13:23, 24 March 2006 (UTC) zinc pyrithione selenium sulfide Keenan Pepper
I've had some success with shampoos containing tar, but they smell bad, so I didn't like using them. I went to a dermatologist, who determined that I had , and he gave me a perscription for shampoo containing , a . -- 21:23, 29 March 2006 (UTC) seborrhoeic dermatitis fluocinolone acetonide corticosteroid WhiteDragon
[] edit evaluate whether the move to India of UK companies call centres should be prevented by the UK government
i am concerned that these business are moving out of the UK and damaging the UK economy and stakeholders such as employees, customers, UK government and shareholders of these companies
That's not a question. What do you want? 12:45, 24 March 2006 (UTC)information Mark your words
Assuming you are looking for criteria whereby any law blocking such moves could be evaluated, here are some possibilities:
National security. Moving jobs in core defense industries to foreign companies could be a defense issue, but this doesn't appear to apply here.
Job loss. Such a law could be passed to protect jobs, but India might respond with similar economic sanctions against the UK. Also, such a law might violate rules of the Commonwealth of Nations, EU, or World Trade Organization.
Consumer protection. Workers in other countries frequently speak poor English and are unfamiliar with the product or service they are supporting, thus making such phone support of little value. However, if a company wants to offer poor service to it's customers, that is generally considered to be their choice. Thus, if customers object and leave the company, it will reform or go bankrupt. If customers don't do so, then apparently they are willing to accept the lower level of call support in exchange for the lower price the company can charge by using substandard foreign workers.
13:16, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
And of course the market forces StuRat refers to in his third option are already in play -- , for instance, makes heavy play in its advertising of the fact that all its call centres are in the UK. -- 15:20, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Natwest Bth
My funniest experience with a foreign call center went like this:
Me: "When I go into the function, it just blows up on me."
Operator: "I'm sorry, sir, if there is an explosion, this must be a hardware issue, our software could not possibly be to blame." 15:59, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
I've heard that some call centers are quite accurate and people, speaking really fluently any language, are trained to imitate the regional accent indicated by the calling phone number. Citation needed - but I have no idea for now.
Jobs are going away from rich countries. If those countries can stay rich, it's with imagination (innovation) and/or by brute force ; and maybe people won't find that the need to work is so compelling if money stays there. -- 19:24, 24 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit How often is wikipedia abused?
I am in a debate class and I need some figures on how often or how many times people post spoof articles or articles that are clearly lies. I know how well the people that work with wikipedia do at screening the articles to ensure perfection but it is not possible to maintain a 100% accuracy rate.
Thanks -- Jeremy
Compare with . Someone may have some stats collated, but most new articles are either junk or obviously legitimate. You may also want to look at and . If an article is seen by a few editors it is very unlikely a spoof article would make it through for long, as the and policies get applied, and if the article creator can't substantiate the material, it gets deleted. - 15:10, 24 March 2006 (UTC) the new pages log the deletion log WP:AFD WP:CSD verifiability no original research Taxman
Talk
You also need to factor in damage to existing articles - a much more frequent abuse than posting junk. I'd guesstimate 2 or 3 incidents per minute. -- Tagishsimon (talk)
You'll also want to probably distinguish between obvious vandalism and subtle vandalism. The former is spottable by anybody and there are even some test bots running to screen for that (swear words and blanking, for example, are easy to spot). The latter are spottable only by experts or people are very attentive and willing to verify new things -- subtle changing of facts, adding of incorrect information, etc. The incidence of the former is much higher than the latter, but easier to spot. -- 22:44, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
The journal Nature did a very good study of just this topic in Dec 2005, concluding that Wikipedia is about as accurate as the Enyclopedia Britannica. Ref:
[] edit people search
how can I use this site to locate old friends?
Which site ? Most will need the full name, including maiden name of women, some indication of the location, and any other info you have, like a phone number or e-mail address. 15:47, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
If by "this site" you mean Wikipedia, then, very likely no - unless they have become famous/notable enough to merit their own article on Wikipedia. But even then you'll only find out their biography, not their contact details. You may want something like . | 16:52, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Friends Reunited QuantumEleven (talk)
Perhaps they want to locate Wikipedia users ? Their talk pages, contributions, etc. ? 20:23, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Medication
I have some medications that I need to know what they are used for and side effects. These are the medications in question: Trileptal, Hydroxyz HCL, Lithium Carb, Prochlorper, Ribavirin. These are my father's meds. and I have Children....Should I lock these meds. up?
Sincerely, A Concerned Mom of 3
In general, lock all medications away from children. For unbiased info on the effectiveness and side-effects of prescription drugs, I suggest www.worstpills.org: , which is not funded by the pharmaceutical companies, but rather by members. (You can get basic info for free, but more detail requires a subscription.) 16:16, 24 March 2006 (UTC) [47] StuRat
Here is their basic (free) entry for TRILEPTAL:
Serious Skin Reactions with the  Seizure Drug Oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL)  (June 2005)  Oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL) has been  associated with life-threatening skin   reactions. If you or a family member  develop AN ALLERGIC reaction or a skin  rash while taking oxcarbazepine (TRILEPTAL),  contact the prescribing physician immediately.
16:31, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
As Stu says, it is a good practice to keep all medications locked up. Here is some information on each one, which I found using : Google
Trileptal is a medicine to treat partial seizures in adults. It is taken alone or with other seizure medicines. Taken with other seizure medicines, Trileptal is also used to help treat partial seizures in children 4-16 years old. FDA
Hydroxyz HCL seems to be an antihistamine of some kind. Didn't get a lot of detail on this one.
Lithium Carbonate -- Use: Treatment of manic episodes of manic-depressive illness
PROCHLORPER SUP 2.5MG / PROCHLORPERAZINE (proe-klor-PAIR-a-zeen) -- This medicine is a phenothiazine used to treat nausea and vomiting. It may also be used to treat other conditions as determined by your doctor.
is an anti-viral drug used by many hospitals in the treatment of respiratory syncytial virus infection. It is considered by some physicians to be an effective and sometimes life-saving drug, but studies have also indicated that the drug may pose a reproductive risk to health care workers. Ribavirin causes birth defects in test animals given small doses of the drug. Ribavirin
I think you might want to make sure your father's doctor is aware of all of these prescriptions. -- 16:25, 24 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
Even common household drugs like (acetaminophen/Tylenol) will kill if taken in an overdose. As a concerned parent, you should not only lock up all drugs, but think very hard about how you can make sure a bored/michievous/curious child cannot get to them: children will put a lot of trouble to get where they are not allowed. For instance, key in your clothes drawer... no, they will find it. 16:26, 24 March 2006 (UTC) paracetamol Notinasnaid
Point number one: As everyone else has said, you should always, , keep medicines out of reach of children. ALWAYS.alwaysalways
Point number two: You're much better off consulting a trained doctor over medical affairs than a bunch of random strangers online.
Having said which, at a complete wild guess judging solely from online info and not from any medical expertise (because I have none), it looks like your father is receiving treatment for (the , and ) and a viral infection, most likely ( is an antiviral). The may be for the bipolar as well (it can reduce anxiety), or he may be receiving it to counteract the nauseous effects of some of the others, or he might just have hayfever (its primary use is as an antihistamine). bipolar disorder Trileptal lithium carb prochlorperazine Hepatitis C Ribavirin hydroxyzine
Let me just emphasise again: and .keep medicines away from childrentalk to a medical professional
I do hope your father feels better soon, it sounds like he's in rather a bad way. -- 16:40, 24 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
[] edit A Listing on the group "Mission America"
Here's my question. I am the founder and president of Mission America, and I now find that someone has entered a listing for our group which is insulting and inaccurate. It's at
How do I change it? I believe the person who did this is Earl Pike of Cleveland, who has major current disagreements with my organization's viewpoint, and is generally making a nuisance of himself.
I'd appreciate the opportunity to write about this organization myself. Thanks!
Linda Harvey, President, Mission America (email removed to protect your inbox)
You already seem to have found the edit button on that article. Now just make your changes, add a comment as to what you changed and why you changed it in the one line comment box at the bottom, and then hit the "Save page" button, basically the same process you used to add this question. However, beware that articles are supposed to be neutral, so if you write a glowing article about only the positive aspects of your org and/or insult Earl Pike, your changes will likely be reverted. 16:53, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Pages can be edited by clicking the "Edit this Page" link at the top of the article. I suggest you create a wikipedia account and read the information on how to write articles, particually about being Non Point of View. Because of your participation in the company it's suggested you add comments in the discussion page about what you would like the article to contain, or information regarding it from a reputable source, as there is some Wikipedia legislation regarding editing articles about you or your company, as they often are biased. I suggest if you don't want to make additions to the article you remove blatently untrue and biased information using the method i stated above. Hope this helps :) 16:46, 24 March 2006 (UTC) -Benbread
(after edit conflict) Hi there! Wikipedia is a , which means (yes, that includes you!) can edit article, including the article in question - just click on the 'Edit' button (which you already seem to have found), change, add and remove text, click Save, and presto! All done. wiki anyoneany
A few pointers, however - editing articles about organisations of which you are a member (or, in this case, the President!) is frowned upon, mainly because Wikipedia has a policy of , and it may be difficult to be neutral about something in which you are so intimately involved. However, if you feel you can write an neutral article, feel free to contribute, but I should be fair and warn you that your edits may be watched a little closer on that subject than if you edited something unrelated. The general rule is, if an article is very slanted towards one point of view, someone with a better sense of balance will come along and improve it sooner or later anyway. Neutral Point of View
Also, please keep in mind - Wikipedia often deals with very controversial subjects, subjects which may inflame strong passions in our contributors. Always remember to , and don't attack other contributors just because they may see a subject in a different light. civility stay cool
Best of luck on Wikipedia! If you have any questions about anything, feel free to leave a message on my , and I'd be happy to help you. | 16:50, 24 March 2006 (UTC) talk page QuantumEleven (talk)
how does this web site get it new or info
[] edit positive impacts
can you please help me to find out about mcdonalds company and the impact they bring to the people of South Africa? what they have done to empower South African people?
Do your own scarily-corporate-sponsored homework. You could try starting at the and clicking on "Good Works". (Apologies if it's not corporate sponsored homework; maybe I've been reading too much .) -- 19:58, 24 March 2006 (UTC) South African McDonalds site Naomi Klein Bth
They have empowered blacks in South Africa to have many of the same things as those of us in the US enjoy...high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity, heart disease, diabetes, kidney failure, etc. 20:19, 24 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
And low-paying jobs. | 23:15, 24 March 2006 (UTC) User:Zoe (talk)
According to general economic theory, people will make the choices best suited to their individual needs and wants. If someone is choosing to work at McDonalds, it is likely that there is no better alternative (or at least, none that that individual is aware of). I don't work at McDonalds, because I can get a better paying job doing something else - but if I were fifteen with no work experience and only able to work 8 hours a week, the choices probably are 1) Do nothing, or 2) Work at McDonalds. Might not be great, but better than nothing. Even a low-paying, pseudo-dead-end McDonalds job "empowers" someone by providing some income, work experience, and a chance at advancement.-- 23:55, 24 March 2006 (UTC) inks T
how do you write up a business plan?
Have you read the article on ? | 23:28, 24 March 2006 (UTC) business plans Dismas (talk)
Try using the article . In Soviet Russia, business plan uses YOU Business plan !!
That should be "In Soviet Russia, Business Plans write YOU!!" :) -- 23:57, 24 March 2006 (UTC) inks T
[] edit Canadian stocks
Which Canadian stocks should I buy? I plan to keep them for about 2 months, so which ones will gain the most value (if I bought $100,000 worth of stocks).--[UTC-05:00; 12:03] uuu
If we knew that then we'd all be lounging about with stacks of our money laying around and not here. We can't predict the future any better than you can. | 00:51, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
I beg to differ.--[UTC-5:00; 12:03] uuu
On which point? | 01:09, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Dismas (talk)
I was under the impression that most Wikipedians are unemployed, which wouldn't make this the best place for financial advice. 20:20, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
The best job on earth : accountant for stock holders. -- 21:06, 25 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
I suggest as it is the only Canadian stock I know, let us know if you make any money. 11:41, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Barrick Gold AllanHainey
No surely you meant ! 18:09, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Bre-X Rmhermen
If you could go backin time to last Thursday would clearly have been the answer. Except that you would have had to own a mutual fund to get any. 20:32, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Tim Hortons DJ Clayworth
? 01:06, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Mattel Keenan Pepper
If you include companies that don't just make games, how about , or even  ? 03:22, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Sony Microsoft StuRat
Games only i would say who completely dominate the computer game industry. 13:09, 30 March 2006 (UTC) Electronic Arts SanderJK
Who is the richest,most powerful and most famous man without a High School diploma?
The preceding comment was added by ( ) 01:11, 25 March 2006 (UTC) unsigned 206.170.104.24 talk contribs
The proper answer depends on your definition of famous and whether by is you mean living. Power too is difficult to measure, consider or . I guess until recently, might have been the answer. Pol Pot Mao Saddam Hussein
had three months of formal education. had no formal education. , the Colonel, had no formal education. , who died in 1999, is certainly one of the richest uneducated self-made men, though not famous as a person, but for his family name. 12:37, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Thomas Edison Joseph Stalin Harland David Sanders Forest Mars BellCurve
Well, if we're talking people from history, then both and (PBUH) have had a tad of influence. ... 00:33, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Jesus Muhammad Grutness
wha?
As far as contemporary people, is a billionaire high school dropout. The list of billionaire college dropouts is pretty remarkable (start with Bill Gates and Steve Jobs). -- 18:16, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Richard Branson jpgordon
Certainly Muhammad the son of `Abdullah (may Allah's blessings and peace be upon him) would meet the criteria, but Jesus (The Christ) was neither rich nor famous in his lifetime.-- 18:19, 26 March 2006 (UTC) BellCurve
[] edit How to write a 1 act play
I need to write a one act play for school (4 cast members). I've been given little advice on how to go about doing this, so I'll ask here.
1. How long is one act? (in both text and time)
2. What is the best way for me to go about writing the play? 01:36, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Flea110
A one-act play is generally a half hour to an hour in length. A page of dialogue generally takes a minute to act out, so you're looking at 30 to 60 pages. That's including a lot of spacing. A plot almost always has a conflict and a resolution. Characterization is also very important. One of the big mistakes made by novice writers and bad writers is to neglect to give each character an individual voice. You don't want all your characters to sound the same like those overly verbose kids in . Dawson's Creek
Make sure you write each page carefully with all dialouge and props and characters written correctly. Note that if you need any sort of scenery to have that written out too. 40 pages would take approximately 45 minutes to act out.
Preceding comment added by ( ) unsigned 24.165.154.9 talk contribs
I've copied the above comment from the section below to here. -- | | | 20:00, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Slumgum yap stalk
Mind you, I very much doubt that your teacher is really expecting a play that long unless this is a semester-length project (I assume you're a high school student, not a university student). I would think you should clarify with your teacher about how big a play is expected. -- 12:59, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
It's a bit of a unique situation, but he was expecting a play that long. Things have changed recently though, so it turns out I won't have to write it after all. Good information to know, though. 22:01, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Flea110
One of your best bets is to read a bunch of 1-act plays. Often, you can get single copies of plays for free or very cheap, and they don't take long to read (half an hour to an hour, as noted above). Ask someone in the English or Drama department. After reading a bunch of them, you'll get a sense of the plots and pacing that work in the 1-act format. Pick out 2 or 3 plays you like a lot, and take note of how the playwrite has the characters interact with each other and how the plot is presented and resolved. Good luck! 21:47, 1 April 2006 (UTC) TheSPY
[] edit effectiveness of communication campaning during reality show
about marketing managmanet
Whatever it is, it's sure to be better than the effectiveness of the communication skills displayed in this "question". Do you seriously expect anybody to know what you want? 02:19, 25 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
As near as I can figure, they are asking about the effectiveness of placing political campaign ads on TV during a reality show. This is for their Marketing Management class. 03:15, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Make sure you write each page carefully with all dialouge and props and characters written correctly. Note that if you need any sort of scenery to have that written out too. 40 pages would take approximately 45 minutes to act out.
The asker should suitly emphazi. 20:16, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
I can tell you that your marketing campaign will not be effective if you don't spell correctly. (Unless, I dunno, maybe it's a campaign for spell checking software, which you don't see often). 20:57, 25 March 2006 (UTC) KWH
[] edit yoga room design
What sort of design do you suggest for a yoga room in my condo which is to be located in a windowless cement block basement in need of floor heating air conditioning lighting and some simple storage? 02:18, 25 March 2006 (UTC) DavidWorl
Looking forward to your responses. David
You already asked this and it was already answered. 03:08, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Here is your previous question: 03:35, 25 March 2006 (UTC) [48] StuRat
Do you need a yoga room with a notepad ? -- 21:02, 25 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit sega dc vs 3do
what system have the better specs???
The DC, by far.
[] edit Nameless Anime
Well, I was watching a huge collection of random Anime Music Video clips, and twice during this collection, several scenes from a very intreguing-seeming anime came up. The best I can describe it as AMV, after all is an anime with a red-haired boy who wears tiny little round glasses and has magic powers(?), lots and lots of girls around, and he has a stick thing that's all wrapped up in white strips of cloth. There's also a white chibi weasle in one shot.
Vague, yes; many apologies. Hopefully someone will know it well enough.
Sounds like 09:38, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Negima 221.216.234.108
It is! Thank you ever so much!
[] edit AD
I think I'm slowly getting what AD is now, does that mean this year is 2006 AD?
Yes, but it's normally only used for dates that can be either AD or BC, like the date a particular Roman emperor ruled, for example. 12:59, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Actually it is AD 2006. 15:44, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Rmhermen
On the other hand it could be 2006 . 15:49, 25 March 2006 (UTC) CE CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Yea, the politically correct crowd has changed AD to CE (common era) and BC to BCE (before common era), so as not to offend anyone. 16:27, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
Even though, funnily enough, it's still based on the year Jesus was born. (on the other hand, Jesus wasn't even born in the year AD 1, so it isn't really based on anything). 20:15, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
don't panic
AFAIK the BC/AD thing was invented retroactively. Sometime in the 6th to 8th century, some munk got up and said "Hey everybody! I have a bright idea! Let's start saying Jesus was born 500 to 700 years ago, and start pretending we've been counting years from his birth all along!" | 09:44, 27 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
Not exactly. See for the whole story. 18:07, 27 March 2006 (UTC) AD Rmhermen
So, basically, it measures from an arbitrary point within a decade-long span in which Jesus was probably born. I've also read that some historians think it's either of two years several years before AD 1, one because of a supernova that may have been the Star of Bethlehem, the other because several planets aligned that year so that they looked like one large star. 19:07, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
[] edit terminology
what is the term for "device that stores memory" in electrical devices?
and do that. Also, a stores memory. Without being more specific with your question, it would be hard to be more specific with an answer. | 14:13, 25 March 2006 (UTC) RAM ROM harddrive Dismas (talk)
A also stores memory. Like Dismas says, we need a more specific question. -- 15:06, 25 March 2006 (UTC) cache GraemeL (talk)
Technically, memory stores data. (insert "Soviet Russia" joke here). Cache is simply a type of memory with a dedicated purpose. A hard drive stores data as well, and usually is thought of as a storage device rather than memory, although the lines get blurred when something like a is considered, since that is memory which emulates a hard drive. -- 15:55, 25 March 2006 (UTC) USB flash drive LarryMac
what is a price hold
I can think of three possible meanings:
A period of time between the selection of an item and purchase where the price is fixed. For example, hotel tickets frequently go up just prior to a big event, but if you have reservations, the rate is fixed at that point.
A synonym with "", which are used to prevent out of control inflation. In the US, some national price controls were used in the 1970s and local price controls still exist in some areas, such as New York City housing. Most economists agree, however, that permanent price controls don't work, and actually make the situation worse. price controls
Temporary price controls, as during a natural disaster, to prevent "" by unscrupulous business owners, such as at a gas station when people need gasoline (petrol) to flee an approaching hurricane. price gouging
16:13, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
From what I found with Google, it sounds like it means for a company to keep prices the same for a long stretch of time. However, it could have multiple meanings. 20:12, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42
[] edit Pittsnogle
I know who Kevin Pittsnogle is but where in the world did that name originate and what does it mean? It's such a very strange last name and I can't seem to find a site that has it listed in their data bases. It's been driving me crazy since they played Texas for the first time this year can anyone there find out and let me know?
Thanks Joyce Gordon (email removed for spam protection)
This is simply a guess, but it could have been "Ellis Islanded" from Petitsnagel, which is a rare Jewish name, literally coming from "petit" (french=small) and "nagel" (=nail). "Nagel" was a name commonly taken as a surname by carpenters. ... 00:43, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Grutness
[] edit How would my indian name be intepreted in USA
I am K.R. Vaishnav from India (South India) which stands for Kidambi Ramu Vaishnav.
Kidambi is my family name, Ramu is my Father's name and Vaishnav is my name.
The Indian passport contains my name as :
KidambiSurname :
Ramu VaishnavGiven Name :
Can you please tell me what would my First, Middle and Last name be for Universities in the United States of America and also for the US Counslate (Visa Purpose)????
Thanks and Regards
K.R Vaishnav
Normally, in the English-speaking world, your family name is last. And if Vaishnav is your own name, it would be best to put this as your first name, as people would call you by this name. I would propose: Vaishnav / Ramu / Kidambi | | | 16:32, 25 March 2006 (UTC)First name:Middle name:Last name:
Slumgum yap stalk
Agreed. Note that if you do it that way you will be called "Vaishnav" in informal situations and "Mr. Kidambi" in more formal situations. "Ramu" would not usually be used at all. Alternatively, you could use "Ramu-Kidambi" as your last name. However, this would mean any children you have would also have a last name of "Ramu-Kidambi". 20:05, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
As for children that would not necessarily be the case, as at least some states allow any name to be used on a birth certificate - it doesn't need to be related to the parent's name. Here is a site about the importance of keeping one spelling in all U.S. documents. 00:44, 26 March 2006 (UTC) [49] Rmhermen
Or you could list "Ramu" as your first name and "Vaishnav" as your middle name and just tell people you go by your middle name. This is what does, for example. Your business card would say "R. Vaishnav Kidambi." You can really do it however you want. still says his name in the Chinese style, with the family name first. No idea what it says on his or work permit. Then there's , who has changed his name to a single word. -- 01:15, 26 March 2006 (UTC) H. Ross Perot Yao Ming green card Warrior Mwalcoff
This is rather annoying to do as it is what I do (Jay Raadt). Pretty much anymore you will be called by your first name.Schyler
[] edit A Win32 app.
Does anyone know of a Windows application which I use to select a folder, then get a list of every file inside it in ultra handy plain text? I can point Firefox to the directory, but it gives me things like the last time it was altered.
You can start up a command line and type dir /b -- 19:17, 25 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
If you want the listing made into a text file like list.txt, try . Use if you want subfolder files. -- 20:07, 25 March 2006 (UTC)dir /b > list.txt/b/s jh51681
If you feel like laying out some money then PowerDesk will do that and more. Or search for the Windows 95/98 power toys and install the "send to" power toy. Then you can send the list to the "clipboard as name". 23:37, 25 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Wacom Cover Removal
Does anyone know how to get the cover off of a Wacom Graphire tablet? There's dust under there and I wanna get it out...
Thanks in advance! 17:14, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Marak24
I have a Graphire 2 tablet, so I'm assuming they're similar enough. Basically, you should be able to see on the edges of the plastic cover little square markings under the glass. This is where the cover latches on to the tablet. Using your thumbnail/fingernail/any other slim object (like a pocket knife blade), insert it into the thin crack on the outside edges of the table, and then pull up hard. Don't be afraid of being forceful, it takes quite a bit of force to rip it off, but you can't hurt the tablet unless you try to. 18:11, 25 March 2006 (UTC) vertigo ciel
It worked! Thanks :) 18:42, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Marak24
[] edit trouble with viewing videos
Whenever i try to watch a video on my pc through real player or any other (except windows media) the image is extremely zoomed in, i try and change the settings so that i am on minimum zoon but it still remains the same, what can i do? 19:41, 25 March 2006 (UTC) 86.129.72.139
Try decreasing your hardware acceleration. It used to do that for me, but decreasing acceleration to a certain point fixed it. Sort of. You don't want to use low hardware accelearation all the time, because some programs such as games require it higher. -- 20:01, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
Try using a better viewer like VLC
[] edit Sudoku Puzzles
I really like those new sudoku puzzles. I solve them all the time and I am now interested in making some puzzles of my own. I am wondering if Wikipedia keeps in touch or has any known whereabouts of puzzlemakers such as Will Shortz and others. I want to know any tips or strategies for making these fun puzzles. Thank you.
Didn't you already post this question ? 19:56, 25 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Hollywood Celebrity Scandal
I have been reading in the newspapers about a male hollywood star in a sex scandal, although I cannot find who it is. Does anyone know who the star is??
Cheers
I should think that every hollywood star regardless of gender is involved in at least 94 simultaneous "sex scandals" at any point in time. Seriously - Google News suggests , , etc etc etc.-- 21:31, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Clay_Aiken Colin_Farrell Lee_Tamahori inks T
[] edit PBS-BBC??
Some 15 or 20 years ago there was a program on PBS of British origin that was most unusual. I think it was shown twice . It consisted entirely of shots where the camera was the eyes of the protagonist. It was otherwise silent. The protagonist simply traveled from place to place through places of business such as factories and warehouses traveling from locale to locale, room to room, and at the end of each of the travels of the protagonist he would come upon someone by surprise, and without so much as a word he would shoot him dead. There were many such scenarios in this movie. It might have occurred during the bad IRA British troubles. I have never been able to find that program. Has anybody ever seen this or know what it is? Please tell me. This unsigned comment was added by Moebius00 (talk contribs) . I think it was "Rhinoceros"(not sure of spelling,sorry) or "Elephant" , a large mammal anyway and if so it was brilliant.It refers to a statement about a large animal in a room that is unmissable but no-one mentions.This was a comment on the "executions" going on in Ireland which everyone knew about but wer'nt talked about.Fear being the motivation of the general public and fear of bad publicity by whoever was the ruling party at the time.It was a tremendous and influential film at the time.If it was by the BBC it may be available through them somewhere. hotclaws**==
I agree with hotclaws. It's Alan Clarke's "Elephant" (1989) and it's available on DVD in North America; see the IMDb page for a link. -- 08:18, 27 March 2006 (UTC) (IMDb) 75.0.158.125
[] edit Blakeley Reserche Institute
Hi can anyone tell me where the Blakeley Reserche Institute is in Geneva? And if there was a person, who's name is James Gardner, who was found in a river there and dead. Also, what means the phrase "sine maleficio"? Thank you.
Blakeley Research Institute question asked before. I'm lazy to look it up but it's probably in the last archive. 04:53, 26 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Sorry, but that question had also no answers.
I've never heard of Blakeley Research Institute, but "sine maleficio" means "without wrongdoing". 05:04, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
[] edit psp.
Damnn! Before I had paintshop and I could open psp things, but I was supposed to save them as jpg but there are a few where I forgot. My computer crashed but luckily all the things stayed there but not paintshop. I now have photoshop but I can't open my psp things anywhere, is there a site where I can upload psp?
You can download a 30-day trial version of (PSP) from 's website through , and you can use that to convert the PSP files into a format Photoshop can understand. The site says that the trial version is "fully functional", so you shouldn't have trouble converting the files. If you do, you can always search for a PSP import plug-in for Photoshop. -- 08:18, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Paint Shop Pro Corel this link Aram
[] edit Reasons why Wikipedia may be blocked by school administrators
At our school, we have an administration program that blocks certain sites, e.g. for instances of the word 'pornography' etc. Wikipedia has never been blocked before but now it is being blocked due to "dangerous files". Does anyone know to what this may refer so that I can approach the school technicians and get it unblocked as it is a fantastic educational resource.
Wikipedia has a pretty comprehensive coverage of sexual matters, including frank discussions of practices and equipment. It also discusses some pretty extreme topics on or beyond the fringe of what's considered normal sexuality even in tolerant societies. And there's lots of articles about porn stars too. -- | 23:51, 25 March 2006 (UTC) Finlay McWalter Talk
There's also frank discussion of drugs, violence, bad language, and in general it's worth noting that Wikipedia is not censored for the protection of minors (see ). We realise some schools and other organisations want to block material they consider offensive, harmful, or that might expose them to legal risk - but we believe these topics are important, and we try to handle them in an appropriate and academic manner. As to persuading the school technicians - perhaps it's worth observing that Wikipedia is (sometimes) blocked by the , and perhaps the technicians might like to consider how comfortable they are following the same path. -- | 23:57, 25 March 2006 (UTC) WP:NOT#Wikipedia is not censored Great Firewall of China Finlay McWalter Talk
Aah but when a site is blocked, the block log appears with for example "triggered ten counts of the word nudity" or somethnig like that. This is due to "dangerous files" Perhaps an ambiguous signal is being sent out that may be interpreted as malicious? 00:01, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Cdmstewart
Then it's simply a dumb filter, that looks for "dangerous" words and blocks if there's too many of them; if that's the case it sounds like it's not a policy of the school to deliberately block wikipedia. You may wish to ask the techs to Wikipedia, on the basis that while it does contain (sometimes lots of) those "dangerous" words, they're in a productive scholarly context. Frankly the kids search wikipedia for sex things, but better they read Wikipedia's version that that of some slimy pornsite or some pervoid's blog. -- | 00:06, 26 March 2006 (UTC) whitelist will Finlay McWalter Talk
Nah they won't. We have nice kids, being a snobby school and all. Thanks anyway Finlay, I'll have a word with the admins 00:13, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Cdmstewart
"" would imply that the program has found , or on Wikipedia, which sounds rather unlikely. Wikipedia is fairly safe for browsers compared to most sites (some , no , no or ). Perhaps it has detected external links to pages containing links to software? Dangerous files EXE SCR COM files javascript popup windows flash java computer virus
Would it be difficult to get a reason (or snippets of ) from the people running the program? 13:15, 26 March 2006 (UTC) log file Ojw
No need friend. It's been unblocked, thank god! -- 19:08, 27 March 2006 (UTC)
Cdmstewart
I might also suggest that you and your fellow students be careful of what subjects you search for. If you spend a lot of time looking for articles on sexual matters on Wikipedia you might find it blocked again. 20:26, 27 March 2006 (UTC) DJ Clayworth
Try . 04:29, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Origin of language CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Think real hard. Mesolithic culture was human culture. Humans have always had language to our knowledge. So if there was a mesolithic culture anywhere, people spoke a mesolithic language in it, don't you think? 04:47, 27 March 2006 (UTC) alteripse
[] edit Sea Travel Between Charles Town and Boston
I am writing a story and, while it's not a plot killer, I would like to know approximately how long (banning storms) it took the average ship to travel from Charles Town to Boston circa 1703. If it matters, I'm talking about a late August voyage.
A rough time estimate of shipping between Boston and Plymouth, England would be a real bonus.
Thanks so much!!! 01:00, 26 March 2006 (UTC)
It would seem that the fastest crossing of the Atlantic was 13 or 14 days in the so depending on the time of year I would guess 20+ days. Did you mean or one of these ? The same applies to or one of these . 1800s Charles Town, West Virginia Charlestown Boston, Massachusetts Boston (disambiguation) CambridgeBayWeather
04:47, 26 March 2006 (UTC) (Talk)
Sorry, I was vague... I meant Charles Town in the Carolina province traveling to Boston via ship. Thanks!
Crossings of 20 or 30 days were not uncommon - even in the 1800s. Columbus took 34 days, the Mayflower 35 days, in the 1700's at least one voyage took 50 days Six to eight weeks seems a common time. 18:04, 27 March 2006 (UTC) [50] Rmhermen
Thanks so much... silly me never thought to reference Columbus!
I just want to say it's a good thing you clarified -- a sea voyage from the I was thinking of to Boston would have taken about five to ten minutes, depending on which wharf you pulled up at :-) 01:34, 30 March 2006 (UTC) Charlestown Haikupoet
[] edit I am looking for a buddy of mine
Clark Chanslor is his name who I went thru Ranger school and Sp Forces traing with in the late 1970's. How can I find him? After I dropped out of the service I moved out of the country for quite a while. Now I am out of sorts, it seems that many service records are sealed. I have tried several ways but if you could give me some ideas that would be really helpful.
Thanks you very much for your help.
If the armed forces can't help there are a few things you could try. I tried googling "Clark Chanslor" and got only 3 hits. You might try variations on his name such as Clark "Chanslor, Clark", etc. If you remember any other information about him and search for that. Things like his birthplace/hometown, parents names, brother and sisters or the town where he went to live after he left the forces. I take it you have tried (guessing you are in the US) and their Yahoo group. The site would seem to indicate that records should be availabe under the Freedom of Information Law. There suggestion that you contact your congressman might be a good one. Good luck. 04:28, 26 March 2006 (UTC) U.S. Army Ranger Association CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Keyboard shortcuts
I have a few buttons on the top of my keyboard which automatically open certain programs - until recently, the button marked "Media" opened Windows Media Player. Yesterday my sister bought an iPod and installed its software (itunes or whatever it is) on my computer. Now when I press "Media", it opens itunes instead of WMP. How do I change what programs these buttons open? (I know I could just open WMP from the start menu, but that's annoying).
The procedure for changing what program it maps to will vary depending on the make and model of the keyboard - so if you know the manufacturer and the model number it would be a big help.-- 07:41, 26 March 2006 (UTC) inks T
Some drivers for keyboards with extra function buttons will add an extra tab in your "Keyboard" control panel, where you can configure what the keys do (Microsoft keyboards definitely do this). If not, look through the "Programs" list in your Start menu, there may be a folder put there by your keyboard driver with a shortcut to an executable you can use to configure the keys. If not, check your keyboard manufacturer's website, in the downloads/drivers section for your model of keyboard, and you may find a key configuration tool availble for download there. -- 08:18, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Aram
It's a "Microsoft MultiMedia Keyboard 1.0A", according to the sticker on the bottom. There was no extra tab in the Keyboard panel, nor was it listed in the Start menu. I'll check the manufacturer's website when I get a chance, but it might be a while because I have a university assignment I've left till the last minute. So if anyone knows how to configure a Microsoft MultiMedia Keyboard 1.0A off the top of your head, it's be much appreciated.
Another place you can check is your system tray (bottom right corner of the screen) - check all the programs running in there, in my case, the extra buttons on my keyboard are controlled from a little program that appears in the system tray. Might be worth a shot. | 09:56, 26 March 2006 (UTC) QuantumEleven (talk)
It's also possible that the keyboard just opens the default media player. You can change this using "Set Program Access and Defaults", which is in the Start menu if you're using XP. (If you're using the Classic Start menu, though, you'll need to go to Add or Remove Programs in the Control panel, and click on the "Set Program Access and Defaults" icon on the left.) -- 13:45, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Cadaeib
Thanks Cadaeib, that worked great!
[] edit Information about Wallace Shawn the actor
To Whom it may help us, My son is 10yrs old, and is a big fan of Mr. Shawn. My boy is visually handicapped(blind since birth). I describe all movies for him. He seems to, very much, like Wallace Shawn's voice and is wondering if there is a way to contact him either by email or regular mailing. Obviously I'd be doing the writing for him. But we seem to have hit a roadblock. Is there an address to him or through his agent that represents him that we could get a letter to him? All I know is that he lives in N.Y. city. Who is Mr. Shawn represented by? This information is very vital to my sanity because he is driving me CRAZY with nonstop questions about Mr. Shawn. So, my question is... How can I contact him with a letter or email? I thank you for helping us with this(if possible) in advance. Sincerely, Patrick & Brian McCauley-- 17:20, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Mccauley
Inconceivable! No, wait, gives the name of his agent, and the agent's address. -- | 17:28, 26 March 2006 (UTC) this page Finlay McWalter Talk
I suggest you mail a blank cassette and ask that he record a short message to your son. Don't tell your son about it, though, because he might be disappointed if you don't get a reply. 20:58, 26 March 2006 (UTC) StuRat
[] edit Geolocation of wireless IP address
192.168.0.161 is a wireless internet connection and the owner asked me to locate the place the where the station controlling this wireless internet connection is. I used to know a colorful geolocation site that gave proxy info and a location (with how many kilometers it was to the nearest city (and which one)). Can anyone remember the site or recommend another good one for geolocation of an IP? - | 20:54, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Mgm (talk)
You can use Symantec Visual Tracking, but i think that runs from within another program, so it's guesswork on what URL parameters to supply to get the thing working :P
Maybe I'm being an idiot here, but that's a restricted IP only used in LANs. You wont be able to find that with any ip geolocator (btw, if you need one, seems to be fine). Chances are that it belongs to a very small LAN (it looks like it occupies 192.168.0.x, ie a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0) with <256 computers. Which would mean it's probably some ones home wireless router or a computer on the network. this one
Or have I totally misunderstood your question? 23:31, 26 March 2006 (UTC) Oskar
that's only if its a static address, which i doubt. it looks like a basic class c subnetted addy, which can run from a few thousand addys, to alot more, and being dynamic, once he's logged off, its given away to another, so your traceroute is a moot point. have the guy type "ipconfig" in his command prompt and see what the addy is now. If the guy owns the static addy, he can simply call his ISP and ask where the routing station is. easy stuff. egas
www.dnsstuff.com - Joneleth
[] edit Permission
I want to make a Spongebob Squarepants fanstuff wiki, and a type of wiki. Do I have to ask the creator for permission? Homestar Runner Cheesia
It depends. If all you want to do is write about Spongebob, you can do that to your heart's content; that falls squarely into . However, if you want to use copyrighted images, or write , or those kind of things, you theoretically need permission. Many rights owners tend to tolerate fansites using some imagery and the like, because the people that create and visit fan sites tend to be amongst the best customers of their products. But if you cost them money in any way shape or form they'll likely come out with all legal guns blazing. -- 04:29, 27 March 2006 (UTC) fair use fan fiction Robert Merkel
There's already a , and probably a spongebob one too. Why not just join the existing project? 20:17, 27 March 2006 (UTC) homestar runner wiki Night Gyr
Well, Cheesemail is my own version of Strong Bad Email. I'm trying to get more messages from everyone so I can keep answering them in public. It's like a hobby of mine, and it's very fun. I'm also going to make an online DVD. (No disk, just when I post something acting like a DVD.) It's not really a Homestar Runner fansite, but a Cheesemail fansite inspired by Homestar Runner. So I need permission to do a Cheesemail wiki? If I answer these on the HRWiki, there are rules to put characters in the email shows. It's no fun. This has nothing to do with Homestar Runner. I don't even answer these by getting emails. On this forum I go to, I must be PMed a message. Also, do I have to ask The Brother Chaps, creators of Homestar Runner, for permission? The wiki maker already got permission from TBC, does that mean everyone's allowed to make fansites? Cheesia
Ok, I guess I'm never going to make this wiki. No one's answering. Come on, I really want more messages. I'm waiting and waiting. Cheesia
It's almost been a day. Still no answer. Cheesia
You should ask the Brother Chaps guys, as it's always better safe than sorry with this sort of thing. 11:53, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Proto ||
type
But Joey Day asked them. Besides, TBC have never answered me before. Cheesia
Please note at the top of the page where it says "If requesting medical, dental, or legal advice, please consider asking a doctor, dentist, or lawyer instead". You are looking for legal advice, which can vary from country to country; if for any reason you did get hauled into court, saying "but those guys at Wikipedia said it was OK" is not going to get you very far.
Also please note that the Reference Desk, like my phone company's DSL offering, is a "best effort service," i.e. we (who are volunteers) will do our best to answer just about anything, but there is no promise that an answer will be given in any particular time-frame. Sometimes there is no answer. That's how it works. -- 20:56, 29 March 2006 (UTC) LarryMac
[] edit realationships
can anyone help me i am trying to fing information on what relationships were like in shakespears time so that i can compare it to todays relationships for a school debate.
type
Oh, come on. Romeo and Juliet is as much about relationships in the Bard's time as is now (or any Harlequin potboiler). -- 20:21, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Romeo + Juliet jpgordon
Well, I don't know about you, but my relationships are often worryingly similar to those in . Apart from the guns, and the being in America, and the banging of Claire Danes, and the music, and having Brian Dennehy as my dad. And the suicides. Apart from that, there's no difference. 11:42, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Romeo + Juliet Proto ||
type
Think carefully about what you mean by the question. Sexual mores were almost certainly not the same throughout society during Shakepeare's life and through the social strata, any more than the social mores of and are the same. Additionally, the fact that the vast majority of the population was illiterate at the time means that we have considerably less insight into their behaviour than we do of the literate elite. You should probably read our article on himself, as well as the one about his wife . -- 23:47, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Salt Lake City The Castro William Shakespeare Anne Hathaway Robert Merkel
At which point I did a double take, until I realised that there were two running about the place... :) | 16:20, 30 March 2006 (UTC) Anne Hathaways QuantumEleven (talk)
[] edit sir isaac newton
Hi, I need to know all about his childhood, schools and adult life but I can not locate it in here can you please point me in the right direction, thanks Dee Dee
Try clicking on . 04:24, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Sir Isaac Newton JackofOz
try "Lucasian Chair of Mathematics Cambridge" newton held it. He also invented Calculus.
You might also try a library for a biography of him, there are many, or check . 11:49, 27 March 2006 (UTC) here AllanHainey
Note that there is considerable debate over who actually "invented" Calculus, was pretty much doing the same work as Newton, at the same time. However, Newton ran a campaign to get sole credit, and discredit Leibniz as a copycat. Leibniz
[] edit farting
Dear board I love to fart! It feels good and I like to smell my own farts whenever possible. I like it especially when I have an audible and big "airy" fart, silent and wet ones are no good. My question is, how can I make sure I have plenty of gas for my big farts? I would like to fart all day. What can I eat, vitamins I can take?
Thanks, Jared
See . 05:08, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Flatulence#Causes Keenan Pepper
Eat beans
Sometimes if I want to fart, I do some stretching. It gets the gases to move through the bowels. (I think). Touch the toes, twist around, etc. I find this works. If it doesn't come out, don't force it. You'll probably crap yourself. If you have time, do yoga! 23:42, 27 March 2006 (UTC) schyler
Hanging upside down also works too --JD
[] edit help citing refernces
can someone cite all my stuff in the article with the one source , please. I do not know how to. George Spotton Conrad, Margaret; Finkel, Alvin (2003). Canada: A National History, Toronto, Canada: Pearson Education Canada, Inc..
There are two things to see here :
1) Wikipedia help is of very little and poor help if it can't be found easily and should give plenty of examples ... try anyway. here
2) A reference sometimes just cannot be linked here!
Do not try to enclose it with "["s. Only if - one of the authors - the book - the editor - is in Wikipedia, create a link. If not, try looking for the code number for the book. I think the best link options are, in that order : The WP book article; the ISBN (which gives access to plenty of booksellers - try it) ; any internet site ; any bookseller site, which is better than nothing at all. ISBN
If you need more help, sure someone can do it, but it is better for you to try. -- 19:52, 27 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit Load/execute a .jsp file in a Adobe Form
How to load/Execute a .js file in a Adobe Form(.pdf/.xdp)? once loaded/executed, the script must start executing and the respective functions called by the objects(for ex. a textbox) in the form have to be executed
[] edit Authors questions on reference material in Wiki
I am an author writing a novel, and find reference material in the Wiki not only useful, but informative. my question is may i use information here without violating copyrighted material. I know when there is a reference to a particular book used as reference by posters i must, but is the Wiki open end public domain? I have reserched "Public Domain" in Wiki, and read that "for all practical purposes the public domain comprises copyright free work"., yet, "there is no such thing as public domain on the internet" Web pages have protection, as do copyrighted materials. non-copyrighted materials and expired copyrights are accessible to me notwithstanding. US Copyright Office and Wiki defines "Uncreative works", as works not of original idea. thus, unprotectable by copyright. and by the Berne Convention, pre 1923 is public domain, so im my case, the bible for one, is usuable fully and with no infrindgment. Still, I would ask that any authors who may be of service, and willing to take the time perchance allow me your knowledge or expeirence. Any help is very much appreciated...
Egas Nus
-- 05:59, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Egas nus
As I understand it, most of the text on Wikipedia is not "", but is made available under the : free for you to use, copy, distribute and even sell, but you are supposed to include the GFDL statement with the used text. However, if you are writing a fiction novel and are just using Wikipedia as a reference there should be no restriction at all and no need to cite your source unless you want to, although thanking Wikipedia in the author's notes would be a nice gesture. -- 07:10, 27 March 2006 (UTC) public domain GNU Free Documentation License Canley
This is correct -- if you are just using it at a reference, you are not violating any copyrights (ideas are not copyrighted, only individual acts of expression are). If you want to quote things, odds are it will fall under the "fair use" clause of U.S. copyright law. If you want to re-use the content substantially, you are allowed to under the terms of the GFDL, which requires nothing other than you release the derivative work under the GFDL as well, and include a copy of the GFDL with the work. -- 19:56, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
Using reference material does not usually require that it is public domain, or even that a citation is given. If you include a verbatim quote of a copyrighted work, a citation is usually needed. Non-verbatim copying is not copyright protected. (Copyright protects the of ideas, not the ideas themselves) Unless you are incorporating text copied verbatim in amounts larger than can be considered a quote, then you don't need license to do so. It's called . Of course, if you take a whole copyrighted book and just re-express every sentence, then it's still copyright infringement. A translation also requires permission; a work needs a certain amount of originality apart from not being a verbatim copy. But it does not need much. -- 17:40, 27 March 2006 (UTC)expression fair use BluePlatypus
Unless you are reading in ancient Hebrew and Greek, the Bible is not public domain either. Teh various translations are copyrighted by different groups. For example the Bible is copyright of the International Bible Society which allows that "The NIV text may be quoted in any form (written, visual, electronic or audio), up to and inclusive of five hundred (500) verses without express written permission of the publisher, providing the verses do not amount to a complete book of the Bible nor do the verses quoted account for twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the total text of the work in which they are quoted." 17:49, 27 March 2006 (UTC) NIV Rmhermen
When items fall into the public domain depends what country you are in -- there is no universal copyright law (the closest thing to it are international conventions which set bare minimums of standards, and not all countries are parties in them anyway). In the United States, any edition of the Bible published before 1923 is current in the public domain. -- 19:56, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Fastfission
[] edit Image renaming
I have just uploaded an image, "Logo blue jpg.jpg". It is Senator Hillary Clinton's campaign logo. I wish to rename this. How do I do so? Or should I just speedy delete and upload the same image with the new name? -- 08:32, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Blue387
U pload the image with a new name and mark the original image as redundant with the {{}} template. 11:05, 27 March 2006 (UTC) PS. You may ask Wikipedia related questions at the . Redundant image Mysid Held desk
[] edit collaboration
Africans were miscontrued as having colloborated with Eurepeans on eve colonisation,is it really correct tosay say so?
Not sure entirely what you mean, especially with "eve colonisation" but logically some Africans must have collaborated with European colonisers otherwise they'd all be dead or still fighting. 11:52, 27 March 2006 (UTC) AllanHainey
Often after tribal wars the victors would sell the losers as slaves to the Europeans, who paid whatever the specific Africans were interested in(mostly glamerous things), but at that time there wasn't any nationalism movement or for that matter they didn't care about 'races'. It was also a fairly easy way to get rid of people not fond of you (for the Africans). Logically you can also deduct that at least a minimum of collaboration had to have been done, since at that time Europeans mostly had coastal colonies, which meant if no one worked with them they would have eventually have to moved inland to find more slaves.- Joneleth
[] edit status
Hello My name is Bharti Patel
I have a question for my sister, I hope you can answer it for me. My sister 's name is Sheela, she has a greencard but when her visa call came through her daughter was over 21 so her file cancelled. Her daughter is handicapped and has a mind level of under 10, but is almost 25 years old. She is not able to take care of herself, and Sheela cannot do so while residing in the US. How can she have her daughter come stay in US legally so her mom can take care of her. Please advise me if you can. Thank You Bharti Patel
Generally, you should direct such questions to your local US , which will help you determine what solution is best for your particular case. You should note that your sister's daughter should be eligible for "Family Second Preference (F2)" immigration status, which allows unmarried children over 20 years of age of US permanent residents (green card holders) to immigrate to the US. However, immigration under the category is limited, with 114,200 permits issued annually, where less than 23% of those go to unmarried sons and daughters over 20 (the rest go to spouses and minor children). These limits, often called "caps", are generally filled quite quickly at the start of each year, so an application must be made well in advance. In addition, judging from your name, I assume you're from India, which causes additional difficulties, as it is a country that sends a large amount of immigrants to the US, and no more than 7% of immigration permits are allocated for each country. You should also note that the immigration laws follow , not calendar years, where each year starts and ends in October. You should read up the , especially . -- 22:10, 27 March 2006 (UTC) consulate fiscal years US Bureau of Consular Affairs website this page Aram
[] edit BombayTV
I briefly considered putting this under Humanities, but it's a tad frivolous. Can anyone learned in Indian TV identify the TV series(s) used in ? Thanks. 21:10, 27 March 2006 (UTC) BombayTV Sum0
[] edit ways to and Polite fart burp
I was wondering what people of high society, , and the such would do when in similair company when they needed to fart or burb? Do they hold it in? or for a fart do they go to the , in that case if you have you would have to be going very often and might appear impolite or something. Weird question I know but who ever thinks about these things? 21:30, 27 March 2006 (UTC) aristocracy royalty formal toilet flatuence Kingstonjr
Include yawning in the above question too. Thanks 21:55, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Kingstonjr
This is neat . -- 22:45, 27 March 2006 (UTC) [51] Zeizmic
When they're amongst themselves, by all reports they scratch themselves, fart, burp, swear, and generally carry on like, well, regular people. It's just when they're out in public and have to pretend they're somehow superior that the issue arises. -- 23:53, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
I don't think it's a case of pretending to be superior, Robert. If you had the entire world watching your every movement, I think you'd be a little circumspect too. It's also a question of basic good manners, and behaviour appropriate to the circumstances. Burping, scratching and farting are not normally encountered at any formal gathering of humans in the West. 01:18, 28 March 2006 (UTC) JackofOz
To a certain extent those things aren't carried out when people are watching (or thought to be watching) even if in a less formal setting. You may tend to do some or all when in the privacy of your home or when alone but most people tend to curb them when around others. Oh, and add to that list. Try and watch drivers at a red light if they think no one is looking. At least some of them will want to explore the interior of their noses. 07:08, 28 March 2006 (UTC) nose-picking CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
I heard on that the people at don't have . -- ] 10:24, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Family Guy The New Yorker anuses Mac Davis .
Well, if it was on Family Guy, it must be true! But this is an interesting question. What do do if you have to fart or burp in public? 16:09, 28 March 2006 (UTC)you Optichan
No one has anwserred my question!!!
Well, you could hold it in.. See (although the story in the article is generally regarded as false). Back in the middle ages, farting was socially acceptable. In more recent times, your choice is to either hold it in, or excuse yourself. (Farting at the dinner table in definitely not allowed) If you're not seated, you also have the option of just moving aside for a moment. As for burps, it's fine as long as you put your hand or napkin over your mouth, as with a cough or sneeze. If you've got flatulence going on, then you can simply explain that you've got "stomache problems" or similar. The point of etiquette isn't to pretend you don't have bodily functions, it's just to show consideration for others in the exercise of them. -- 22:46, 28 March 2006 (UTC) the death of Tycho Brahe BluePlatypus
=: The key is not to hold it in, the key is to avoid it in the first place. If you are going to an elegant gathering tomorrow night, avoid substances tonite and tomorrow morning that tend to give you gas. Discipline yourself. Do not pick your nose at a stop light. Only do so when the vehicle is in motion. But only between the speeds of 35-45. Below 35 and other drivers do not have to concentrate as much and will notice you. Above 45 requires two hands on the wheel. Burping? Avoid too much carbonated beverages and overeating. If a burp is inevitable ease it out quietly and carefully into your napkin. If someone is paying so much attention to you that they are taken aback by your mannerless behavior it is they with the problem not you. Just be discreet. 11:36, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Taktiks
One other thing...if I recall correctly, the British royalty may not be photographed, filmed, recorded etc. while eating, speaking privately or in other situations where they could look silly.-- 17:32, 29 March 2006 (UTC) If you are rich or famous enough,no-one is going to criticise you.There are many jokes in England about the Royals and farting etc. so I expect it has happened in reality.If the Queen farted in front of you , are you going to complain to her about it?I think not!.hotclaws**== 24.80.70.174
I have often heard that it was once considered polite to acknowledge the chef's good work with a large belch at the end of dinner, signifying that the meal was satisfying. I have no reference for this, so it could be true or false. I would imagine that persons in a situation where they do not wish to offend anyone by flatulence would probably just hold it in. This extends far beyond royalty and celebrities - everyone has been in a situation where they feel it would be inappropriate to fart, burp, or yawn. As much as studies want to prove that holding in flatulence can be hurtful, I doubt that it is; at least, no more hurtful than it will be to your image to let it out ;)
[] edit USS Repose (AH-16), USS Sanctuary (AH-17)
Both of these hospital ships assisted with casualties during the Vietnam war. How can I obtain a copy of their Ship's Log for March 1968?
Have you tried contacting the and asking under your countries FOIL? 22:37, 27 March 2006 (UTC) US Navy CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
[] edit Punctuation Project
Hi:
I have volunteered to do a punctuation project. If I see other errors such as spelling, capitalzation, etc., should I correct those? The directions do not exactly state this. I have no qualms about correcting errors.
Regards, LarryBH
Sure, you can edit anything you want without permission. Just make sure you don't change other people's signed comments on talk pages, or their user pages (that's considered bad etiquette), but articles are fair game. 22:05, 27 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
Thanks for the reply, Larry
One thing to watch for is the use of country specific spelling in US/UK articles. In an article like Bill Gates you would use but if it was about Tony Blair you would want etc. 22:35, 27 March 2006 (UTC)colorcolour CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
And for articles that aren't particularly US- or UK-centric, don't bother changing it. Just leave it the way it is. 03:46, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Keenan Pepper
As long as it's internally consistent, that is. (Mixed spelling types within a page is one of my pet peeves.) -- 07:13, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
Worse than that is the editor who changes the spelling in a UK article to US or in a US article to UK. And at the same time makes other valid edits so you can't just do a simple reversion. 07:26, 28 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
By the way, since this is about punctuation, the says that it should be U.S. not US and UK not U.K. | 11:37, 28 March 2006 (UTC) MoS Dismas (talk)
[] edit Sunni Shi'a
how did the conflict in Iraq start?
Depends on how far back you care to go. For the overall issue, see . In more modern times, the conflict can be attributed to the British-supported Sunni rule of Iraq. 's Baathist rule was mostly secular, (his deputy, was a Christian), but he favored people from his own clan (the Tikriti), which meant Sunnis. So, between the combination of historical rivalry, a dictatorship where Shiites were underrepresented and their religion suppressed, there hasn't really been much of a question that religious nationalism would pop up once Saddam disappeared. At least not in my opinion. The question is and was: to what extent? It parallels in many ways , where historically rival groups had similarily been held together by the dictator . Ethnic tensions and nationalism cropped up after his death, eventually leading to a bloody civil war and the dissolution of the country. -- 00:02, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Historical Shi'a-Sunni relations Hashemite Saddam Tariq Aziz Yugoslavia Josip Broz Tito BluePlatypus
And the near-certainty that the deposing of the regime would allow these suppressed tensions to spill over into civil war was one of the reasons why George Bush Snr didnt choose to carry on and bring down Saddam Hussein after the liberation of Kuwait in 1991. 22:03, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Jameswilson
[] edit Long-Lasting Relationships
What are the differences between a relationship that lasts a couple years and a relationship that lasts forever? What separates the two?
Time? Seriously, you may want to look up the definitions of and , as well as . The difference may have something to do with one of those, although with all the relationships in the world and each of them being different, this would probably only be the tip of the iceberg. | 02:22, 28 March 2006 (UTC) infatuation love lust Dismas (talk)
I think the primary difference is commitment. If you're committed to being in a relationship that lasts the duration of your life then you do things that reflect that, like asking questions about how to make relationships last, surrounding yourself with people who have working positive relationships, being careful and logical and just in your judgement of your character and that of the person you're interested in to gauge fairely if it will probably work, being coolheaded and trusting the opinions of your family, etc. These types of practices before you're in a relationship will not only help you to be in a good one, but also to have more of a respect for what you have and a commitment to keep it. But that is really the key. People with commitment do whatever it takes. They find patience, they bend themselves and change their habits. There is obviously more to it and there is ultimately no telling how things will work out, but there are definately things you can do to put the odds in your favor, and that's a good start. - 15:21, 31 March 2006 (UTC) LambaJan
[] edit Jew Joke
I watched an episode of recently and Cartman wanted kyle's "Jew Gold." I thaught it was funny and didn't think it meant anything. I said it at school and a teacher heard me and I got in trouble (note to self: no south park at school). What would this mean and how would it be offensive to a Jew? 23:54, 27 March 2006 (UTC) South Park schyler
A prime example of why not to parrot lines you don't understand. Some hold some uses of the word demeaning - see the last sections of . "Jew gold" probably refers to the theory of Jewish bankers ruling the world. 00:01, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Jew Etymology of the word Jew anti-semitic Rmhermen
Could also refer to the gold the nazis primarily took from Jews in ww2. According to my memory it was called Jew gold. That includes everything from household items to teethgold from concentration camps so that might be why your teacher didn't find it funny. - Joneleth
I thought Cartman was referring to the stereotype that Jewish people are good with money. That's why he was so sure Kyle had Jew gold. :) -- ] 10:23, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Mac Davis .
Of course the stereotype that Jewish people are good with money and the anti-semitic theory of Jewish bankers ruling the world are not exactly unrelated, so in a way you make the same point as Rmhermen. 18:51, 28 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
But whatever the case, I'd definitely avoid quoting things from South Park at school. If you think something doesn't mean something, it probably does and it probably means something offensive. -- 19:53, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Optichan
Maybe it's the cultural difference, but judging by the above, your teacher seems too strict and overly sensitive. It sounds like he/she just heard the word "Jew" and a had a knee-jerk reaction that you might be anti-Semitist. If this is the case, then this is taking political correctness way too far. If you had said "all Jews are so-and-so" then it would have been a fair case, but merely mentioning the word "Jew" (especially, as I take it, you were only asking what "Jew gold") meant, is completely neutral. But maybe I am not aware of all the issues here, because in Finnish, the word for "Jew" and "Jewish" is one and the same - "juutalainen". There is a derogatory abbreviation of it - "jutku" - similar to your "kike" or "wop", and it is best avoided, especially amongst strangers. | 20:33, 28 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
"Jew" may be neutral (though not as an adjective, I think), "Jew gold" is not. 20:45, 28 March 2006 (UTC) David Sneek
While people in the U.S. can be too sensitive sometimes, "Jew gold" is certainly something you shouldn't say. As you surmised, part of the reason is because of the use of "Jew" as an adjective, which is almost always done to be offensive. But even if he had said "Jewish gold," it still would have been offensive, as it would have refered to the old stereotype of Jews as evil bankers or whatever. What's perhaps somewhat heartening about all of this is that our young correspondent has had so little experience with antisemitism that he was completely unaware of this stereotype. It reminds me of that other South Park episode in which the kids completely miss the point of the "lynching flag" controversy. -- 23:57, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Mwalcoff
Cartman as a character is supposed to be somewhat of a . If you repeat his lines in regards to other people's ethnicities, races, religions, sexualities, or nationalities, you are likely to look like a bigot too. Just a hint. -- 21:15, 28 March 2006 (UTC) bigot Fastfission
Cartmen also dresses up like Hitler and gets the townspeople to chant "Wir m ssen die J den ausrotten" ("We must exterminate the Jews"). You really shouldn't be surprised that your teacher feels that "I shall not repeat Cartman's words unless I really understand them" is an important lesson for you to learn. - 01:43, 1 April 2006 (UTC) Nunh-huh
[] edit March 28
[] edit What would be the best camoflauge for laser tag?
I'm going to play laser tag in a couple days, and I'm considering going "all out" in terms of camoflauge and such. The playing environment is indoors, with mostly black walls with small light colored strips of paint in places. What would be the most effective way for me to (without breaking the game rules, like covering targets) camoflauge myself? This is the site for the place I'm going to 02:18, 28 March 2006 (UTC) http://www.planetlazer.net/ Flea110
I guess if the walls are mostly black with paint strips, you should wear black, with a few stripes of color. But the flashing lights on the laser tag vest might give your position away :D-- 05:13, 28 March 2006 (UTC) inks T
Stand perfectly still.The eyes recognize movement in the dark more quickly than anything else..........hotclaws**=
A dark grey is actually better than black, especially if you're going to be moving. Don't wear anything shiny. If you can get away with a balaclava, and black gloves, that wouldn't hurt, as your face and hands will be visible. 11:36, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Proto ||
type
I've played two games of Laser Tag, both on a company recreation trip, and we have been advised to mostly wear black, and avoid white and other bright colours at all costs. This must have worked because I've mostly beat the crap out of my opponents. (The fact that in one game we were up against schoolchildren may have something to do with it.) | 20:20, 28 March 2006 (UTC) JIP Talk
Depending on the arena, there might be a blacklight there, so avoid anything that shows up under a blacklight (which, I guess is mostly white stuff that you'd avoid wearing anyway, but you know what I mean). 21:00, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Oskar
Lint on black clothing generally shows up really well under a . Just sayin' ... -- 16:46, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Black light LarryMac
Ok, this is original research but this might help future people who want to play at Planet Lazer (I've played there multiple times). The arena is fairly large, a smoke machine is used fairly extensively. I would suggest a very dark grey, and possibly a toque. The strobe lighting makes it a little hard to manuver while hiding and the audio effects on your vest will give you away. Hiding spots on the upper deck are the best, just be sure to keep moving around and find a good barrier. Games get a little nuts and you might get hit a few times.
Your gun has a bomb option, it is your friend, find a group of people all together and bam, stats padding :)
Anyways, enjoy your game, its a great place. (thinking about it, I have a couple free play tickets sitting on my desk, I really should go and play :) -- 06:43, 5 April 2006 (UTC) Tawker
[] edit Who is Harold V. Melchert?
Highly quoted individual in anything from Financial Planning presentations to motivational speeches, yet I've been unable to learn who he is/was.
Any help is appreciated.
03:13, 28 March 2006 (UTC) 70.49.37.251
Wow, that's weird. He's quoted all the time but no body knows who he is. -- ] 10:20, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Mac Davis .
Positively freaky. It's almost as though he's some sort of trade secret of the inspirational speaking industry: if you want to make something up, attribute it to him. More plausibly, he was a very early exponent of the art of stating the obvious for large amounts of money, but never did anything particularly notable. -- 10:26, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
The 2001 edition of "The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations" does not have one quote of his. It may be a made up name and all I see after looking at several different sites is one quote about mountain climbing. Can someone point me out another. Thanks 11:46, 28 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
You have managed to miss the nauseating "When you hire people who are smarter than you are, you prove you are smarter than they are." Until now. Admittedly that and the mountain one are the only two I found. -- 11:57, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
I don't think the guy exists. He is supposedly quoted all over the place but appears to have only made a few quotes and does not appear in one of the major books on quotations. Fictional person. 13:07, 28 March 2006 (UTC) CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
Checking some online genealogy resources (good ol' Mormons with their project to baptise everyone who ever lived) a "Harold Vir Melchert" died in 1980 in Marion, Oregon. Whether that's the mountain-climbing, infinitely smart Harold V Melchert I have no idea. Adding that information to the Google searches doesn't turn anything up, though. -- 07:59, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Bth
[] edit Cultural intelligence
I have an enquiry on cultural intelligence. What is cultural intelligence?
How different is it from emotional intelligence? How does a lack of cultural intelligence resulted in having embarrassing outcomes in an organization? Thank you
I suggest that you take a look at , and . 07:02, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Intelligence Principle Race and intelligence (Culture-only or partially-genetic explanation) Emotional intelligence CambridgeBayWeather (Talk)
And in general. And god bless the RD, which has suggested a very useful redirect - . 11:33, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Race and intelligence Cultural intelligence Proto ||
type
That looks like a dodgy redirect if ever I saw one. Emotional Intelligence describes an ability, capacity, or skill to perceive, assess, and manage the emotions of one's self, of others, and of groups. I suspect that Cultural Intelligence describes an ability, capacity, or skill to perceive, assess, and manage the cultural attributes of one's self, of others, and of groups. And that would have next to bugger all to do with Race & Inteligence, which would be the nature nurture stuff. -- Tagishsimon (talk)
Good lord it's a ridiculous redirect - . CQ is the ability to make sense of unfamiliar contexts and then blend in." It's a management theory, and has nowt to do with race. Try . I've reverted the redirect. 21:07, 29 March 2006 (UTC) "Cultural Intelligence (CQ) is the ability to cope with national, corporate and vocational cultures google Natgoo
Cultural intelligence might be enclosing your three homework questions between an "I have an enquiry ..." and a "thank you". -- 20:26, 28 March 2006 (UTC) DLL
[] edit land rovers 1986 2.50 petrol engine
could you please tell me the performance figuars ei miles to the gallon etc
According to our article on , none had a 2.5L petrol engine as standard. The smallest stock engine was a 3528cc . Apparently though some were made with a 2.5L diesel.-- 22:43, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Land Rovers Rover_V8 inks T
That article concerns Range Rovers, which are a type of Land Rover. The article mentions a 2.5l Defender made from 1985 onwards, but doesn't include any performance stats. Manufacturer's performance stats are generally unreliable anyway, so true figures are rarely seen. | | | 22:53, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Land Rover (Series/Defender)
Slumgum yap stalk
I can give a general answer, based on extensive experience with Land Rovers of that and earlier eras; it would have been very slow, and it would have been very thirsty, unlike the V8's, which were not that slow but extremely thirsty, and the diesels which were very very slow (except up hills) but relatively fuel-efficient. It's all relative, though, compared to a Chevy Suburban it's probably quite economical. -- 02:40, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Robert Merkel
[] edit Notary Public's signature?
Does a signature have to accompany a Notary Public Seal ie, if the seal is there alone, without a signature, is that sufficient?
That would depend on the jurisdiction. 20:08, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Henry Flower
(I'm omitting the "how dare you not tell us what country you're in" rhetoric that often accompanies answers here...) Actually, it appears that it may be the opposite. At least in , it that the signature is critical and the seal is optional. It's all a little hard to decipher, though, and the very concept of a changes from country to country and even state to state. For the US, you may want to contact the . 20:10, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Minnesota seems notary public National Notary Association kmccoy (talk)
[] edit Nationality of a name?
Hi
I have been trying to research the nationality of the last name Yungk, but cannot locate this information anywhere. Can you help? Any information you can provide is appreciated.
indicates it is probably (even speaks ). - 20:47, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Cursory research Germany Switzerland Swiss-German Superm401 Talk
Yeah, I'm quite sure it's German. Another spelling variant is "Jungk". I'm not sure about the meaning, but it's probably relates to either "Jung" (young) or "" (see article). -- 22:14, 28 March 2006 (UTC) Junker BluePlatypus
[] edit largest neighborhood
What is the Largest Neighborhood in America? I dont mean City
How exactly are you defining "neighborhood"? That's a rather vague term. Do you mean a suburban subdivision/housing estate, or were you thinking of something else? (I should add that it's hard to precisely pin down where one ends and another begins). Please suitly emphazi. 04:57, 29 March 2006 (UTC) Yeltensic 42