 
 
A dinner series focusing on local farms and food producers. The dinners take place throughout the year, showcasing farmers and products as the seasons progress. Because these dinners are designed to highlight our local bounty they include a variety of cuisines and non-Asian influences. Our most recent On July 1st Lantern featured a wine from an endangered , the very first local tomatoes, new garlic, local cheeses, grass-fed lamb, local peaches and honey.   Our special guests included James Stock of Haw River Wine Man, who shared some of his amazing wines from the sandy, volcanic soil of Santorini and the Peleponese along with his family's organically produced olives and olive oil, John and Cindy Soehner of Eco Farm and Alex and Betsy Hitt of Peregrine Farm, who treated us to an early preview of their tomato harvest. The evening benefited Triangle farmers and cooks who are attending in October and the Slow Food Foundation for Biodiversity's Presidia on the . Our most recent Lantern Table was a 9-course Japanese kaiseki-style feast, including wine pairings by Jay Murrie On Tuesday, March 27th our guests were two local American cheese-making pioneers, Flo Hawley and Portia McKnight of Chapel Hill Creamery. We showcased their farmstead cheeses, along with their whey-fed pigs and prime local produce from many of their fellow Terra Madre delegates in a inspired by an October trip to the Italian Piedmont and paired with artisan wines from the same region. Throughout the evening, Hawley and McKnight discussed their approach to farming, their cheeses and long-term goals. The evening was a for - a festival to promote and reinvigorate America’s diverse food traditions that will take place in San Francisco, May 1-4, 2008. - The dinner featured and once again Ben & Noah joined us. Listen to a discussion of the 1st Annual Fickle Creek dinner on WUNC FM's - in the bar featuring the English heritage duck breed known as Aylesbury. This delicious variety comes from , godfather of the heritage poultry revival. Each course was paired with wines from Burgundy. - A unique evening of food and wine along with . Tony McClung, and Mike Tiano, of , gave a special wine class, followed by a seasonal Japanese dinner featuring local ingredients. The evening began at 3 Cups with the class and tasting of six French wines selected from the Rosenthal portfolio, and concluded at Lantern with a paired with the same wines. - - A featuring 's spring harvest, pasture-raised lamb and wild salmon. Elaine created pairings of small-producer French wines for the meal as well.     - Brendan, Elaine, April, Miguel & Andrea cooked an  at , in Pittsboro, NC to benefit the . Nearly every single ingredient on the menu was local, including whey-fed pork, asparagus, black truffles, oysters, ramps, and strawberries. - North Carolina Seafood Dinner - 1st Annual "The Chicken & the Egg" featuring Fickle Creek Farm   |      - Two local American cheese-making pioneers, Flo Hawley and Portia McKnight of showcased their farmstead cheeses, as well as their whey-fed pigs with a six-course menu inspired by the Italian Piedmont and paired with from the same region. We also served from nearby farms and fresh direct from Alba. Throughout the evening, Hawley and McKnight discussed their approach to farming, their cheeses and long-term goals. - The dinner focused on simple preparations of pork, chicken, and beef all raised within 25 miles of Chapel Hill. The menu included: Chapel Hill Creamery quark with radishes and sea salt Roasted chicken with spring onions and baby turnips Braised pork shoulder and belly with fennel, olives and Anson Mills grits Grilled beef with fried herbs and crispy potatoes Local organic strawberry ice cream - with 2004 James Beard Award winner and his sous-chef (and Durham native) Gray Brooks. Originally stranded in the sixteenth century by Spanish explorers on Ossabaw Island off the coast of Georgia, Ossabaw hogs are the descendants of the famous Spanish Iberian or pata negra hogs – free-range pigs who fatten up on foraged acorns & wild grasses before becoming the most sought-after ham in the world – ibérico. The amazing story of their rescue from the island is the subject of NY Times writer & author Peter Kaminsky’s upcoming book, Pig Perfect. Among the tale’s heroines is Eliza Maclean, one of only two farmers in the world currently raising Ossabaws. Luckily for us, Eliza’s Cane Creek Farm is in Mebane. The evening benefited the , the Pittsboro-based group who has tirelessly worked to save rare farm breeds from extinction since 1977. Owl’s Nest Trading Co. shared a selection of traditional organic wines from small producers in Germany, whose estates have been in their families for hundreds of years. The quality of these delicious wines is a reflection of their deep roots in the land. They will be a great pairing with pigs who feast on Alamance County alfalfa, peanuts and acorns.What is the Lantern Table?
Lantern Table: