Ann K. Goodchild
From the Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University, New South Wales, Australia.
Correspondence to Ann K. Goodchild, Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Dow Corning Building, Level 1, 3 Innovation Rd, Macquarie University, 2109 NSW, Australia. E-mail:ann.goodchild{at}vc.mq.edu.au
Bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM)are critical for the maintenance of sympathetic vasomotor toneand normal cardiovascular reflex function. So far, selectivelyeliminating/inhibiting distinct subpopulations of RVLM neuronshas not significantly altered arterial pressure. Here we showthat RVLM presympathetic neurons that express somatostatin 2Areceptors are essential for maintaining and potentially generatingsympathetic vasomotor tone. Combined immunocytochemistry andin situ hybridization were used to map the expression of somatostatinreceptors 1, 2A, 2B, 3, and 4 (sst1 through 4, respectively)in the rat RVLM. sst1 and sst2B were absent; sst3 and sst4 weresparse. However, sst2A was found postsynaptically and detectedin 35±5% of bulbospinal RVLM neurons a population thatincluded 54±4% of catecholaminergic and 30±3%of enkephalinergic neurons. Bilateral microinjection into theRVLM of either somatostatin or the receptor-selective agonistlanreotide evoked dramatic, dose-dependent sympathoinhibition,hypotension, and bradycardia that were blocked by the sst2 receptorantagonist BIM-23627 in anesthetized rats. Bilateral RVLM microinjectionof somatostatin also attenuated chemoreceptor and somatosympatheticreflex function. Somatostatin only eliminated the first sympathoexcitatorypeak evoked by somatosympathetic reflex activation, whereasmuscimol abolished both excitatory peaks providing functionalevidence that the activity of only a subpopulation of RVLM presympatheticneurons is inhibited by somatostatin. We suggest that the subpopulationof bulbospinal RVLM neurons that expresses the sst2A receptorsets sympathetic vasomotor output. These neurons are essentialfor maintaining resting blood pressure under anesthesia andcontribute to adaptive reflexes mediated through the RVLM.
cardiovascular • sympathetic vasomotor tone • catecholamine • enkephalin • respiration
Key Words: