In Search ofEl Presidio de Tucson
Page 3
A North-South Wall
The earliest historic feature found was a segment of a north-to-south adobe brick wall. The surviving portion of this wall was built from pinkish-brown adobe bricks, each measuring 19 inches long, 11 inches wide, and 4 inches thick. The bricks were plastered together with a gray-brown mortar. Two courses rest on a wider foundation that is about 32 inches wide and consists of three adobe bricks resting side-by-side, held together by a lighter-colored mortar. The basal course of bricks was placed on the existing historic ground surface. Excavations beneath this surface recovered only prehistoric artifacts. On the west side this surface dips down dramatically, whereas on the east side it is relatively flat.
What does this wall represent? Examination of the soil profiles by geomorphologists indicates that it is the earliest historic feature in the trench. There were no interior abutting walls in the trench area when it was first built; thus, it may be a freestanding wall. The drop on the exterior suggests that it was being built next to a sloping area or that the dirt on the exterior had been removed, perhaps to make adobe bricks. By building next to a slope or by removing sediments, the wall would be higher to people standing outside. The flat interior surface allowed structures to be built against the wall.
One possibility is that this is the west Presidio wall. It is in the correct location, according to historical sources, and is the earliest historic feature in the area. The bricks are also the correct size for the Spanish and Mexican period. Lastly, artifacts in close association with the wall date to the Presidio period (1775-1856) rather than the later American Territorial period (1856-1912). On the other hand, some archaeologists have suggested that the wall may not be wide enough to be the Presidio wall. The northeast corner area found by Emil Haury and Ned Danson in 1954 was 3 feet wide (although this may represent the corner tower) and the walls for the Presidio at Terrenate are also wider. One way to resolve this problem is to return to the lawn and excavate to the north and south. If the wall is continuous, it is likely that it is the Presidio wall.