 EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
Food Stamp Employment and Training Program
The Food Stamp Employment and Training Program is a program designed to promote self-sufficiency through employment for mandatory food stamp applicants and recipients. Services include: job readiness, job search, job retention and job advancement training provided via workshops for up to two months a year.
The Food Stamp Employment and Training Program operates in Converse, Laramie, Natrona, Park, Sheridan and Sweetwater Counties which covers the cities of Douglas, Glenrock, Cheyenne, Casper, Cody, Powell, Sheridan and Rock Springs. Job search training and support will be provided to participants for thirty (30) hours per week for two months (60 days) as funding is available.
Participants will receive training in job seeking skills including preparing applications and resumes, effective interviewing, labor market research and job retention skills.
Training may also include life skills to prepare participants for employment.
Training could also provide participants with tools to develop career plans and progress in the world of work.
Segments may include opportunities for job seekers to assess themselves, work as a team, improve communication, practice creativity and develop habits that will assist them in progressing in their employment if they are underemployed or employed part-time.
Job seekers who are interested in starting their own business will benefit from training in entrepreneurial skills to assist them in attaining their goals.
Participants nearing the end of job search training who have not been successful in obtaining unsubsidized employment will be referred for placement services through the or to the Department of Workforce Services' for assessment and possible training. Workforce Investment Act Program Vocational Rehabilitation Division
For more Food Stamp information and where to apply for assistance, please visit the Wyoming Department of Family Services . Food Stamp Program website
to a friend.