This blog resource deals with all aspects of earning online business and how you would go about optimizing your promotions to be more effective.
Earning Profits Online: A Resource Guide For Online Earning
Earning online is one of them things that must be learnt and it's up to you to find the opportunities.
Monday, 15 December 2008
An Online Business Youtube Video Collection
Online business speakers and thought leaders, it dawned on me that if you look hard enough there are some golden nuggets of online business ideas somewhere in any and all peoples videos for business earning online.
Sunday, 20 July 2008
Online Business Step Two: Finding A Good Web Host
Finding a could be just the same as finding a great domain name, after all the two can come as a package with most web hosts, but how do you go about finding one that is going to be useful for your needs to earn money online? Well it's all about your needs really, how big your site will be, or what you want to achieve with it, most people earning online just have a direct sales page that includes an opt in form and a list of the full benefits of the product you want to sell, this could be an affiliate product or your own digital product. All these types of internet marketers do is set up a domain name for that particular sales page and product, of course there would be the download page, once you pay you can download the digital product instantly, and for your opt in form you might have a subscribers page to confirm you want to receive email communications about the product with further information. Web hosts start at $5 or under and increase with price to include more features, as a recommendation from me, the best thing to do is start off small if you have no experience of being a webmaster and learn the basics of creating a and (opt in form page)most web hosts come with a web page builder built in to the users control panel, so you can start immediately. is the one I use for my site and I highly recommend it's usability and so far it's never gone off on a 404 error or other such web page that says your site cannot be found. Others of note are for it's internet marketer focused control panel and automated centre for the email communications, this is a built in all in one customer focused communication system that acts as an and includes PR releases and other traffic building tools which are also added to your arsenal as an . also is a recommended alternative by professional bloggers and web masters. also has webhosting options too, plus domain names to add on your webhost account
good web host
Wednesday, 14 May 2008
Online Business Step One: Finding A Good Domain Name For Your Website
When it comes to actually starting up your online business, the more important points become even clearer, and a domain name is one of them things, it draws a potential customer into your website, it provides professional credibility for you as the expert who is presenting a product or service that people will find useful. A keyword targeted domain name that will plough through the search engines results like a giant, a supreme long tail keyword phrase of at the most 3 words and a domain will propel your online business into the big leagues, a good domain name will bring you more traffic that is targeted towards your offers of business. Essentially a good domain name will be easy to type into a browser, but also easy to identify what your website is about just by the domain name alone.
.com
Wednesday, 23 April 2008
Marketing Through The Use Of Customer Review Videos Online Can Be Very Profitable
Especially if you corner hot and in demand niches, and you don't have to create your own videos if you don't want to, all you need is an affiliate link to promote and you are good to go with a video that someone has already created for you on a site such as or . Just try and find a close match to your affiliate product, maybe someone else has reviewed the affiliate product already, so it's just a matter of adding a few details such as the video title and descriptions with the relevant tags and keywords of course to add to the search engines with the seo optimization, and don't forget the affiliate link or url as this is needed for you to earn any commissions from. Rememer video reviews can be about anything you can think of, as there are multiple revenue streams contained within your free membership, so give it a go and come back here and tell us what you learnt.
Sunday, 20 April 2008
Why Every Major Company Tests And How You Can By Jim Sansi
It seems wherever you look nowadays successful businesses are using some form of testing to improve their business. From brand name soft drink makers to political campaigns the key to improving the profitability of any business is to simply to try out new things and new ways of running the business until you have a valid result then acting upon those results as a way to guide future actions. But where do you start testing? Well first and foremost you should be constantly testing your sales and marketing materials. If you have an online sales page or print advertisements go and test different layouts, colors, fonts and wording of the ad itself. Sales and marketing material is the lifeblood of a business and the good news is that even very small changes can have a big impact on conversion or response rates which will directly puts more money in your pocket... But if you're not testing you will be missing out on these potential gains. If sales and marketing are the direct customer facing side of things then operations handles the fulfillment and services that will influence a customer's satisfaction of your business. This is also a critically important area of any business to test and improve upon because it is absolutely important to retain customer's long term. So go out and test and track the results from your order to delivery, support systems and product fulfillment processes. You should especially test them even if they are handled by third party companies to ensure they are running in top shape and can make delivery on time. Beyond sales and operations I highly recommend that you implement testing and process improvement in every area of your business. Establishing testing and continuous improvement cycles throughout is a major accomplishment that will ensure the long term viability and profitability of your business. Find even more simple yet effective ways to incorporate kaizen and lean principles in any business at the following website
posted by Wayne Tully at 05:25 0 Comments Links to this post
4 Steps To Your First Money Online By Dan Fletcher
Many new internet marketers want to begin making money online, but have no idea where to start. One of the best ways for a beginner to start is by using a web script. Although it sounds complicated, these scripts (usually written in a programming language called PHP), often aren't as complicated as would first appear, and they are a great way to create a large site in a small amount of time. The first step is to decide on a script. There are all sorts of PHP scripts available, ranging from joke sites, to ebook stores, to , and more. Basically- if you can think of it- there is probably a script to do it. Research different scripts, and work out what is right for you. Your decision should be based on what your hobbies are, what your skill level is, whether you want to sell something, or make money from advertising, how much time you can devote, and what your budget is. Now download the script, and read all the support documentation. Don't just try and install the script straight away- read the documentation first, as it may mention something important that you need to know! Some developers will install the script for you- even if they do, you should still read about the script, so you know what it can do. The third step is to change some of the content of the script. Google has something called a "Duplicate Content" filter, which it uses to stop identical sites from dominating the search results. This means if you don't modify your site, it probably won't get much traffic from the search engines (Because it will look identical to the websites of everyone else that has bought the script!) Try and find the template file for the script, and modify it in whatever way you want. You should change titles, headers, keywords, and if your HTML skills are up for it- even the layout. You should also modify the content wherever you can (A lot of web scripts have an admin panel that allow you to do this), and also add your own fresh content. Change as much as you can- it might take a bit of time, but you'll be better off in the long run. Now it's time to start getting some traffic to your site. There are literally thousands of ways to do this. At the very minimum, submit your website to some search engines, write some articles and submit them to some article directories, and submit your site to some web directories. You should research other ways of getting traffic- this is the lifeblood of every internet business. The most important thing is to track what works. Install an analytics program (I highly recommend google analytics), and see what works and what doesn't. When you find something that works- keep doing it. As long as you stick with it, you should eventually succeed. And you can't beat the feeling you get the very first time you while your sleeping! Good luck! Looking for a site with a wide variety of great PHP scripts? Then visit Dan Fletcher's great scripting site...
Step 1: