Approved by the board of directors at its meeting on January 26, 2007
 
The 729+ members of HRACRE are extremely disappointed in the 2006 General Assembly failure to pass legislation that would invest in our great Commonwealth long-term future by providing new, sustainable, broad-based revenue to finance our Commonwealth woefully inadequate transportation infrastructure. We are all familiar with the crisis:
 
The Commonwealth sources to fund long-overdue infrastructure projects.span style="FONT: 7pt "Times New Roman"">        requires $2 Billion annually in new revenue
 
The cost of maintaining is growing at such a pace that within 6 years, there will be available for any new transportation projects, leading to Virginia losing Federal gasoline tax dollars to other states.span style="FONT: 7pt "Times New Roman"">        existing infrastructureno funds
 
In Hampton Roads alone, is required to support the Metro Planning District Regional Transportation Plan.span style="FONT: 7pt "Times New Roman"">        $275 million annuallyin new revenue
 
Failure to invest in Virginia transportation responsibly will lead to:span style="FONT: 7pt "Times New Roman"">        
(already every 17 minutes there is an accident in Hampton Roads);o  Unsafe roads
(the Road Information Program recently found that inadequate road conditions and congestion cost Virginians $4.7 billion annually in delays, auto repairs, lost time, and wasted fuel);o  More traffic delays
as companies who depend on reliable transportation networks will look elsewhere to locate facilities and jobs.o  Reduced economic growth
And ($7 billion is budgeted over the next 20 years for $33 billion in projects. In 2026 the $26 billion in unfunded projects will increase to $66 billion).o  much greater cost
 
, no matter their age, employment status, or demographics, relies on, benefits from, and therefore must invest in our Commonwealth transportation infrastructure. Roads, mass transit, and driver license are a privilege, not an entitlement. All stakeholders must take responsibility to invest in our future.span style="FONT: 7pt "Times New Roman"">        EVERY SINGLE VIRGINIAN
 
HRACRE urges Hampton Roadsleading business and civic organizations to unite in the demand that our legislators . Our recommended investments for our Commonwealth transportation system include:INVEST IN OUR FUTURE
 
revenue sources totaling a minimum of $1 Billion annually to support the regional and statewide transportation maintenance and new construction needs.1.     NEW
 
are absolutely necessary, rather than fees or taxes that are indirect or hidden from the ultimate payer.2.     New broad-based, shared, long-term, sustainable revenue sources
 
3.Broad-based sources of new revenue that HRACRE could support to meet the need for $1 Billion annually in new revenue dedicated to transportation, include:        
 
Increase in gas tax.a.      
Increase in sales tax.b.     
Reasonable tolls on new and existing roads to fund construction of new roads, bridges, and tunnels as well as improvements to existing transportation facilities.c.      
Increase in motor vehicle registration fees.d.     
Increase in drivers license fees.e.      
New fees on bad drivers.f.      
Indexing the current cents per gallon gas tax or converting the cents per gallon gas tax to a percentage gas tax to keep pace with inflation.g.     
 