The oath referred to in Article II does not include
four words are
recited in all the recent inaugurations, "So help me God." The first known use of
the phrase "So help me God" at a presidential inauguration was Chester Arthur, September 22, 1881 after the death in office of
President James Garfield. 2008 Sued atheist activist Michael Newdow unsuccessfully in federal court to block the use of the phrase
"So help me God" in Barack Obama's inauguration. On three occasions presidents (Arthur, Coolidge and Obama) re-taken oaths after question on the first try. The last-over occurred in 2009 after Chief Justice Roberts received the oath of words in the wrong order in the public inauguration ceremony. William Henry Harrison died in office (1841); Zachary Taylor died in office (1850), Abraham Lincoln (1865) murder, James A.. Garfield, assasinated (1881); William McKinley, (1901) murder; Warren Harding died in office (1923); Franklin Roosevelt
Delano; (1945); died in office, John F. Kennedy, assasinated (1963); Richard M. Nixon, (1974), resigned and technically Gerald Ford (ever since he was elected to the office; He "never a word He was elected to complete "). This is your quote: "the Bush administration did not do too much,
when it really had American greedy, shortsighted, slick idiot preconceived notions that" breath. "The President has at the beginning of his, and
his shocking disregard for immigration and oil is going to seem to be of infinite length.  To go
to the United States of America Mitapadia: this navigation search (abbreviated as k). the Republic law enforcement agencies, national kmain and the role of books to . Powers including the ability to record differentially, the President of the Republic is attacked and to list "However, law and legislation, including access to or consulting her apology and Federal Officials, judges, federal, to be passed by both houses of Congress. The Constitution of the United States Constitution is the oldest written Constitution in force worldwide. The authors of the Constitution, a provision amending the document when the circumstances require political, social or economic. reproduction of painting of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and others to sign the United States